Similarity and discrimination in classical conditioning: A latent variable account| Abstract We propose a probabilistic, generative account of configural learning phenomena in classical conditioning.  Configural learning experiments probe how animals discriminate and generalize between patterns of simultaneously presented stimuli (such as tones and lights) that are differentially predictive of reinforcement.  Previous models of these issues have been successful more on a phenomenological than an explanatory level: they reproduce experimental findings but, lacking formal foundations, provide scant basis for understanding why animals behave as they do.  We present a theory that clarifies seemingly arbitrary aspects of previous models while also capturing a broader set of data.  Key patterns of data, e. g.  concerning animals' readiness to distinguish patterns with varying degrees of overlap, are shown to follow from statistical inference. 
Dopamine and Inference About Timing| Abstract Temporal-di#erence learning (TD) models explain most responses of primate dopamine neurons in appetitive conditioning.  But because existing models are based in the simple formal setting of Markov processes, they do not provide a realistic account of the partial observability of the state of the world, nor of variation in event timing.  For instance, the TD model of Montague et al.  (1996) mispredicts the dopamine response when an expected reward is delivered early.  We explain such experimental results using a version of TD learning grounded in the richer formalism of partially observable semi-Markov processes.  We propose that the brain infers the likely state of the world from limited observations, using a statistical model of how the world's state evolves.  Inference is necessary for such judgements as whether an expected reward is merely late, versus having been omitted altogether.  The dopamine signal is modeled as a TD error signal for learning to predict future rewards from this inferred state representation. 
Timing and Partial Observability in the Dopamine System| Abstract According to a series of influential models, dopamine (DA) neurons signal reward prediction error using a temporal-difference (TD) algorithm.  We address a problem not convincingly solved in these accounts: how to maintain a representation of cues that predict delayed consequences.  Our new model uses a TD rule grounded in partially observable semi-Markov processes, a formalism that captures two largely neglected features of DA experiments: hidden state and temporal variability.  Previous models predicted rewards using a tapped delay line representation of sensory inputs; we replace this with a more active process of inference about the underlying state of the world.  The DA system can then learn to map these inferred states to reward predictions using TD.  The new model can explain previously vexing data on the responses of DA neurons in the face of temporal variability.  By combining statistical model-based learning with a physiologically grounded TD theory, it also brings into contact with physiology some insights about behavior that had previously been confined to more abstract psychological models. 
Model Uncertainty in Classical Conditioning| Abstract We develop a framework based on Bayesian model averaging to explain how animals cope with uncertainty about contingencies in classical conditioning experiments.  Traditional accounts of conditioning fit parameters within a fixed generative model of reinforcer delivery; uncertainty over the model structure is not considered.  We apply the theory to explain the puzzling relationship between second-order conditioning and conditioned inhibition, two similar conditioning regimes that nonetheless result in strongly divergent behavioral outcomes.  According to the theory, second-order conditioning results when limited experience leads animals to prefer a simpler world model that produces spurious correlations; conditioned inhibition results when a more complex model is justified by additional experience. 
Modeling Temporal Structure in Classical Conditioning|
