Analysis of Gene Expression Data with Pathway Scores| Abstract Wepresent a new approachfortheevaluation of gene expression data.  The basic idea is to generate biologically possible pathways and to score them with respect to gene expression measurements.  We suggest sample scoring functions for different problem specifications.  We assess the significance of the scores for the investigated pathways by comparison to a number of scores for random pathways.  Weshow that simple scoring functions can assign statistically significant scores to biologically relevant pathways.  This suggests that the combination of appropriate scoring functions with the systematic generation of pathways can be used in order to select the most interesting pathways based on gene expression measurements. 
Prediction on Spike Data Using Kernel Algorithms| Abstract We report and compare the performance of different learning algorithms based on data from cortical recordings.  The task is to predict the orientation of visual stimuli from the activity of a population of simultaneously recorded neurons.  We compare several ways of improving the coding of the input (i. e. , the spike data) as well as of the output (i. e. , the orientation), and report the results obtained using different kernel algorithms. 
EXTENDED ABSTRACT Engineering Support Vector Machine Kernels That Recognize Translation Initiation Sites| Abstract In order to extract protein sequences from nucleotide sequences, it is an important step to recognize points from which regions encoding proteins start, the so-called translation initiation sites (TIS).  This can be modeled as a classification problem.  We demonstrate the power of support vector machines (SVMs) for this task, and show how to successfully incorporate biological prior knowledge by engineering an appropriate kernel function. 
Semi-Supervised Classification by Low Density Separation| Abstract We believe that the cluster assumption is key to successful semi-supervised learning.  Based on this, we propose three semi-supervised algorithms: 1.  deriving graph-based distances that emphazise low density regions between clusters, followed by training a standard SVM; 2.  optimizing the Transductive SVM objective function, which places the decision boundary in low density regions, by gradient descent; 3.  combining the first two to make maximum use of the cluster assumption.  We compare with state of the art algorithms and demonstrate superior accuracy for the latter two methods. 
Engineering support vector machine kernels that recognize translation initiation sites|
Centralization: a new method for the normalization of gene expression data|
A Simple Iterative Approach to Parameter Optimization|
Co-clustering of biological networks and gene expression data|
Confidence measures for protein fold recognition|
Microarrays: How Many Do You Need?|
