An Experimental Comparison of Range Image Segmentation Algorithms| Abstract A methodology for evaluating range image segmentation algorithms is proposed.  This methodology involves (a) a common set of 40 laser range finder images and 40 structured light scanner images that have manually specified ground truth and (b) a set of defined performance metrics for instances of correctly segmented, missed and noise regions, over- and under-segmentation, and accuracy of the recovered geometry.  A tool is used to objectively compare a machine generated segmentation against the specified ground truth.  Four research groups have contributed to evaluate their own algorithm for segmenting a range image into planar patches. 
Image-based Environment Matting| Abstract Environment matting is a powerful technique for modeling the complex light-transport properties of real-world optically active elements: transparent, refractive and reflective objects.  Recent research has shown how environment mattes can be computed for real objects under carefully controlled laboratory conditions.  However, many objects for which environment mattes are necessary for accurate rendering cannot be placed into a calibrated lighting environment.  We show in this paper that analysis of the way in which optical elements distort the appearance of their backgrounds allows the construction of environment mattes in situ without the need for specialized calibration.  Specifically, given multiple images of the same element over the same background, where the element and background have relative motion, it is shown that both the background and the optical element's light-transport path can be computed.  We demonstrate the technique on two different examples.  In the first case, the optical element's geometry is simple, and evaluation of the realism of the output is easy.  In the second, previous techniques would be difficult to apply.  We show that image-based environment matting yields a realistic solution.  We discuss how the stability of the solution depends on the number of images used, and how to regularize the solution where only a small number of images are available. 
Image-based rendering using image-based priors| Abstract Given a set of images acquired from known viewpoints, we describe a method for synthesizing the image which would be seen from a new viewpoint.  In contrast to existing techniques, which explicitly reconstruct the 3D geometry of the scene, we transform the problem to the reconstruction of colour rather than depth.  This retains the benefits of geometric constraints, but projects out the ambiguities in depth estimation which occur in textureless regions.  On the other hand, regularization is still needed in order to generate high-quality images.  The paper's second contribution is to constrain the generated views to lie in the space of images whose texture statistics are those of the input images.  This amounts to a image-based prior on the reconstruction which regularizes the solution, yielding realistic synthetic views.  Examples are given of new view generation for cameras interpolated between the acquisition viewpoints---which enables synthetic steadicam stabilization of a sequence with a high level of realism. 
AUTOMATIC LINE MATCHING AND 3D RECONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS FROM MULTIPLE VIEWS| ABSTRACT This paper describes two developments in the automatic reconstruction of buildings from aerial images.  The first is an algorithm for automatically matching line segments over multiple images.  The algorithm employs geometric constraints based on the multi-view geometry together with photometric constraints derived from the line neighbourhood, and achieves a performance of better than 95% correct matches over three views.  The second development is a method for automatically computing a piecewise planar reconstruction based on the matched lines.  The novelty here is that a planar facet hypothesis can be generated from a single 3D line, using an inter-image homography applied to the line neighbourhood.  The algorithm has successfully generated near complete roof reconstructions from multiple images.  This work has been carried out as part of the EC IMPACT project.  A summary of the project is included. 
Automatic 3D Model Construction for Turn-Table Sequences| Abstract.  As virtual worlds demand ever more realistic 3D models,
Direct Least Squares Fitting of Ellipses| Abstract This work presents a new efficient method for fitting ellipses to scattered data.  Previous algorithms either fitted general conics or were computationally expensive.  By minimizing the algebraic distance subject to the constraint 4ac\Gamma b 2 = 1 the new method incorporates the ellipticity constraint into the normalization factor.  The new method combines several advantages: (i) It is ellipse-specific so that even bad data will always return an ellipse; (ii) It can be solved naturally by a generalized eigensystem and (iii) it is extremely robust, efficient and easy to implement.  We compare the proposed method to other approaches and show its robustness on several examples in which other non-ellipse-specific approaches would fail or require computationally expensive iterative refinements.  Source code for the algorithm is supplied and a
Maintaining Multiple Motion Model Hypotheses Through Many Views to Recover Matching and Structure| Abstract In order to recover structure from images it is desirable to use many views to obtain the best possible estimates.  However, whilst recovering projective structure and motion from such extended sequences problems arise that are not apparent from a general viewpoint/structure approach.  Foremost amongst these are (a) maintaining image correspondences consistently through many images, and (b) identifying images, within the sequence, for which structure cannot be reliably recovery.  Within this paper the use of multiple motion model hypotheses is explored as an aid to solve both of these problems. 
Bayesian Estimation of Layers from Multiple Images| Abstract.  When estimating foreground and background layers (or equivalently
Training PDMs on Models: The Case of Deformable Superellipses| Abstract This paper addresses the following problem: How can we make a complicated mathematical shape model simpler while keeping a comparable level of representational power? The proposed solution is to use the original model itself -- which represents a class of shapes -- to train a Point Distribution Model.  In this paper the idea is applied to the case of deformable superellipses. 
ELLIPSE-SPECIFIC DIRECT LEAST-SQUARE FITTING| ABSTRACT This work presents the first direct method for specifically fitting ellipses in the least squares sense.  Previous approaches used either generic conic fitting or relied on iterative methods to recover elliptic solutions.  The proposed method is (i) ellipse-specific, (ii) directly solved by a generalised eigen-system, (iii) has a desirable loweccentricity bias, and (iv) is robust to noise.  We provide a theoretical demonstration, several examples and the Matlab coding of the algorithm. 
Real-time Panoramic Mosaics and Augmented Reality| Abstract This paper investigates estimating exact imaging transformations accurately, reliably and efficiently.  It is shown that in certain common computer vision situations the transformation required can be defined by a small number of parameters.  Search is only required over these parameters, and consequently the search algorithms to estimate the transformation can be run at frame rate, without sacrificing robustness or accuracy.  Performance is superior to often used approximations to these transformations.  Two examples are illustrated: planar panoramic mosaicing, and augmented reality.  Both applications run at frame rate on standard desktop machines, such as an SGI Indy or a PC. 
Real-time gesture recognition using deterministic boosting| Abstract A gesture recognition system which can reliably recognize single-hand gestures in real time on a 600Mhz notebook computer is described.  The system has a vocabulary of 46 gestures including the American sign language letterspelling alphabet and digits.  It includes mouse movements such as drag and drop, and is demonstrated controlling a windowed operating system, editing a document and performing file-system operations with extremely low error rates over long time periods.  Real-time performance is provided by a novel combination of exemplar-based classification and a new "deterministic boosting" algorithm which can allow for fast online retraining.  Importantly, each frame of video is processed independently: no temporal Markov model is used to constrain gesture identity, and the search region is the entire image.  This places stringent requirements on the accuracy and speed of recognition, which are met by our proposed architecture. 
Improving Augmented Reality using Image and Scene Constraints| Abstract The goal of augmented reality is to insert virtual objects into real video sequences.  This paper shows that by incorporating image-based geometric constraints over multiple views, we improve on traditional techniques which use purely 3D information.  The constraints imposed are chosen to directly target perceptual cues, important to the human visual system, by which errors in AR are most readily perceived.  Imposition of the constraints is achieved by constrained maximum-likelihood estimation, and blends projective, affine and Euclidean geometry as appropriate in different cases.  We introduce a number of examples of augmented reality tasks, show how image-based constraints can be incorporated into current 3D-based systems, and demonstrate the improvements conferred. 
Robust registration of 2D and 3D point sets| Abstract This paper introduces a new method of registering point sets.  The registration error is directly minimized using general-purpose nonlinear optimization (the Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm).  The surprising conclusion of the paper is that this technique is comparable in speed to the special-purpose ICP algorithm which is most commonly used for this task.  Because the routine directly minimizes an energy function, it is easy to extend it to incorporate robust estimation via a Huber kernel, yielding a basin of convergence that is many times wider than existing techniques.  Finally we introduce a data structure for the minimization based on the chamfer distance transform which yields an algorithm which is both faster and more robust than previously described methods. 
Learning epipolar geometry from image sequences| Abstract We wish to determine the epipolar geometry of a stereo camera pair from image measurements alone.  This paper describes a solution to this problem which does not require a parametric model of the camera system, and consequently applies equally well to a wide class of stereo configurations.  Examples in the paper range from a standard pinhole stereo configuration to more exotic systems combining curved mirrors and wide-angle lenses.  The method described here allows epipolar curves to be learned from multiple image pairs presented to the stereo cameras.  By aggregating information over the multiple images, a dense map of the epipolar curves can be determined on the images.  The algorithm requires a large number of images, but has the distinct benefit that the correspondence problem does not have to be explicitly solved.  We show that for standard stereo configurations the results are comparable to those obtained from a state of the art parametric model method, despite the significantly weaker constraints on the non-parametric model.  The new algorithm is simple to implement, so it may easily be employed on a new and possibly complex camera system. 
Bundle Adjustment - A Modern Synthesis|
Stochastic Rigidity: Image Registration for Nowhere-Static Scenes|
On Affine Invariant Clustering and Automatic Cast Listing in Movies|
Multibody Structure and Motion: 3-D Reconstruction of Independently Moving Objects|
Ellipse-specific least-square fitting|
High-level model acquisition from range images|
Automatic Acquisition of CAD Models from Multiple Range Views,|
"Damped Newton Algorithms for Matrix Factorization with Missing Data,|
Markerless Tracking using Planar Structures in the Scene|
Automatic Camera Recovery for Closed or Open Image Sequences|
" `Memories for life': Managing information over a human lifetime"|
A hand-held optical surface scanner for environmental modelling and virtual reality|
Extracting Surface Patches from Complete Range Descriptions|
A buyer's guide to conic fitting|
Invariant fitting of two view geometry or "In defiance of the 8 point algorithm",|
Set of MATLAB files for ellipse fitting|
Automatic 3D model acquisition and generation of new images from video sequences,|
Parallax Geometry of Smooth Surfaces in Multiple Views|
Bundle ajustment - a modern synthesis|
Simultaneous registration of multiple range views satisfying global consistency constraints for use in reverse engineering,|
Simultaneous registration of multiple range views for use in reverse engineering|
Bayesian Video Matting Using Learnt Image Priors|
The problem of degeneracy in structure and motion recovery from uncalibrated image sequences|
Bundle Adjustment - Modern Synthesis,|
Simultaneous linear estimation of multiple view geometry and lens distortion|
Simultaneous registration of multiple range views for use in reverse engineering of cad models|
International conference on pattern recognition|
Bundle adjustment for structure from motion|
\A hand-held optical surface scanner for environment modeling and virtual reality,"|
Convex hulls, occluding contours, aspect graphs and the Hough transform|
"Automated Reconstruction From Multiple Photographs,|
A comprehensive survey of bundle adjustment in computer vision|
Practical aspect graph derivation incorporating feature segmentation performan ce|
VHS to VRML: 3D Graphical Models from Video Sequences|
Automatic Camera Tracking|
Vision Algorithms: Theory and Practice|
Direct calibration and data consistency in 3-D laser scanning,|
Comparison of Range Segmentation Algorithms|
Stable segmentation of 2D curves|
Direct least squares fitting of ellipses|
