Inference, Attention, and Decision in a Bayesian Neural Architecture| Abstract We study the synthesis of neural coding, selective attention and perceptual decision making.  We build a hierarchical neural architecture that implements Bayesian integration of noisy sensory input and top-down attentional priors, leading to sound perceptual discrimination.  Many known psychophysical and neural consequences of attentional modulation can be captured within this framework.  The model offers some explicit explanations for the way that prior information about one feature (visual location) can dramatically alter the inferential performance about a completely independent feature (orientation), as well as the provenance of multiplicative modulation of neural tuning curves.  The model also illustrates a possible reconciliation of cortical and neuromodulatory representations of uncertainty. 
Expected and Unexpected Uncertainty: ACh and NE in the Neocortex| Abstract Inference and adaptation in noisy and changing, rich sensory
ACh, Uncertainty, and Cortical Inference| Abstract Acetylcholine (ACh) has been implicated in a wide variety of tasks involving attentional processes and plasticity.  Following extensive animal studies, it has previously been suggested that ACh reports on uncertainty and controls hippocampal, cortical and cortico-amygdalar plasticity.  We extend this view and consider its effects on cortical representational inference, arguing that ACh controls the balance between bottom-up inference, influenced by the input stimuli, and top-down inference, in#uenced by contextual information.  We illustrate our proposal using a hierarchical hidden Markov model. 
Biophysiologically Plausible Implementations of the Maximum Operation| Abstract Visual processing in the cortex can be characterized by a predominantly hierarchical architecture, in which specialized brain regions along the processing pathways extract visual features of increasing complexity, accompanied by greater invariance in stimulus properties such as size and position.  Various studies have postulated that a non-linear pooling function such as the maximum (MAX) operation could be fundamental in achieving such selectivity and invariance.  In this paper, we are concerned with neurally plausible mechanisms that may be involved in realizing the MAX operation.  Different canonical models are proposed, each based on neural mechanisms that have been previously discussed in the context of cortical processing.  Through simulations and mathematical analysis, we compare the performance and robustness of these mechanisms.  We derive experimentally verifiable predictions for each model and discuss the relevant physiological considerations. 
Acetylcholine, Norepinephrine, and Spatial Attention| Abstract Despite strong implication of the neuromodulators acetylcholine (
Uncertainty and Learning| Abstract It is a commonplace in statistics that uncertainty about parameters drives learning.  Indeed one of the most influential models of behavioural learning has uncertainty at its heart.  However, many popular theoretical models of learning focus exclusively on error, and ignore uncertainty.  Here we review the links between learning and uncertainty from three perspectives: statistical theories such as the Kalman filter, psychological models in which differential attention is paid to stimuli with an effect on the speed of learning associated with those stimuli, and neurobiological data on the influence of the neuromodulators acetylcholine and norepinephrine on learning and inference. 
Norepinephrine and Neural Interrupts| Abstract Experimental data indicate that norepinephrine is critically involved in aspects of vigilance and attention.  Previously, we considered the function of this neuromodulatory system on a time scale of minutes and longer, and suggested that it signals global uncertainty arising from gross changes in environmental contingencies.  However, norepinephrine is also known to be activated phasically by familiar stimuli in welllearned tasks.  Here, we extend our uncertainty-based treatment of norepinephrine to this phasic mode, proposing that it is involved in the detection and reaction to state uncertainty within a task.  This role of norepinephrine can be understood through the metaphor of neural interrupts. 
2002 Special issue Acetylcholine in cortical inference| Abstract Acetylcholine (ACh) plays an important role in a wide variety of cognitive tasks, such as perception, selective attention, associative learning, and memory.  Extensive experimental and theoretical work in tasks involving learning and memory has suggested that ACh reports on unfamiliarity and controls plasticity and effective network connectivity.  Based on these computational and implementational insights, we develop a theory of cholinergic modulation in perceptual inference.  We propose that ACh levels reflect the uncertainty associated with topdown information, and have the effect of modulating the interaction between top-down and bottom-up processing in determining the appropriate neural representations for inputs.  We illustrate our proposal by means of an hierarchical hidden Markov model, showing that cholinergic modulation of contextual information leads to appropriate perceptual inference. 
Acetylcholine in Cortical Inference| Abstract Acetylcholine (ACh) plays an important role in a wide variety of cognitive tasks, such as perception, selective attention, associative learning, and memory.  Extensive experimental and theoretical work in tasks involving learning and memory has suggested that ACh reports on unfamiliarity and controls plasticity and effective network connectivity.  Based on these computational and mechanistic insights, we develop a theory of cholinergic modulation in perceptual inference.  We propose that ACh levels reflect the uncertainty associated with top-down information, and have the effect of modulating the interaction between top-down and bottom-up processing in determining the appropriate neural representations for inputs.  We illustrate our proposal by means of an hierarchical hidden Markov model, showing that cholinergic modulation of contextual information leads to appropriate perceptual inference. 
P, Acetylcholine in cortical inference|
