Ranking on Data Manifolds| Abstract The Google search engine has enjoyed huge success with its web page ranking algorithm, which exploits global, rather than local, hyperlink structure of the web using random walks.  Here we propose a simple universal ranking algorithm for data lying in the Euclidean space, such as text or image data.  The core idea of our method is to rank the data with respect to the intrinsic manifold structure collectively revealed by a great amount of data.  Encouraging experimental results from synthetic, image, and text data illustrate the validity of our method. 
Statistical Convergence of Kernel CCA| Abstract While kernel canonical correlation analysis (kernel CCA) has been applied in many problems, the asymptotic convergence of the functions estimated from a finite sample to the true functions has not yet been established.  This paper gives a rigorous proof of the statistical convergence of kernel CCA and a related method (NOCCO), which provides a theoretical justification for these methods.  The result also gives a sufficient condition on the decay of the regularization coefficient in the methods to ensure convergence. 
SUPPORT VECTOR REGRESSION FOR BLACK-BOX SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION| ABSTRACT In this paper, we demonstrate the use of support vector regression (SVR) techniques for black-box system identification.  These methods derive from statistical learning theory, and are of great theoretical and practical interest.  We briefly describe the theory underpinning SVR, and compare support vector methods with other approaches using radial basis networks.  Finally, we apply SVR to modeling the behaviour of a hydraulic robot arm, and show that SVR improves on previously published results. 
Optimised support vector machines for nonstationary signal classification|
"Nonstationary signal classification using support vector machines,"|
Estimating the Leave-One-Out Error for Classification Learning with SVMs|
Consistency of kernel canonical correlation|
Behaviour and convergence of the constrained covariance|
Measuring statistical dependence with Hilbert-Schmidt norms|
