Sequence motifs: highly predictive features of protein function| Summary.  Protein function prediction, i. e.  classification of protein sequences according to their biological function is an important task in bioinformatics.  In this chapter we illustrate that the presence of sequence motifs -- elements that are conserved across dierent proteins -- are highly discriminative features for predicting the function of a protein.  This is in agreement with the biological thinking that considers motifs to be the building blocks of protein sequences.  We focus on proteins annotated as enzymes, and show that despite the fact that motif composition is a very high dimensional representation of a sequence, that most classes of enzymes can be classified using a handful of motifs, yielding accurate and interpretable classifiers.  The enzyme data falls into a large number of classes; we find that the one-againstthe-rest multi-class method works better than the one-against-one method on this data. 
A Support Vector Method for Clustering| Abstract We present a novel method for clustering using the support vector machine approach.  Data points are mapped to a high dimensional feature space, where support vectors are used to define a sphere enclosing them.  The boundary of the sphere forms in data space a set of closed contours containing the data.  Data points enclosed by each contour are defined as a cluster.  As the width parameter of the Gaussian kernel is decreased, these contours fit the data more tightly and splitting of contours occurs.  The algorithm works by separating clusters according to valleys in the underlying probability distribution, and thus clusters can take on arbitrary geometrical shapes.  As in other SV algorithms, outliers can be dealt with by introducing a soft margin constant leading to smoother cluster boundaries.  The structure of the data is explored by varying the two parameters.  We investigate the dependence of our method on these parameters and apply it to several data sets. 
A Support Vector Method for Hierarchical Clustering| Abstract We present a novel method for clustering using the support vector machine approach.  Data points are mapped to a high dimensional feature space, where support vectors are used to define a sphere enclosing them.  The boundary of the sphere forms in data space a set of closed contours containing the data.  As the kernel parameter is varied these contours fit the data more tightly and splitting of contours occurs.  The contours are interpreted as cluster boundaries and the points within each disconnected contour are defined as a cluster.  Cluster boundaries can take on arbitrary geometrical shapes and clusters are separated by valleys in the underlying probability distribution.  As in other SV algorithms, outliers can be dealt with by introducing a soft margin constant leading to smoother cluster boundaries.  The hierarchical structure of the data is explored by varying the two parameters.  We investigate the dependence of our method on these parameters and apply it to several data sets. 
CREME: a framework for identifying cis-regulatory modules in human-mouse conserved segments| ABSTRACT Motivation: The binding of transcription factors to specific regulatory sequence elements is a primary mechanism for controlling gene transcription.  Recent findings suggest a modular organization of binding sites for transcription factors that cooperate in the regulation of genes.  In this work we establish a framework for finding recurrent cisregulatory modules in the promoters of a selected set of genes and scoring their statistical significance.  Results: Proceeding from a database of identified binding site motifs and their genomic locations we seek motifs whose frequency in the selected promoters is different than in a background promoter set.  We present several statistical tests designed for this purpose.  We provide a hashing algorithm for detecting combinations of these motifs that co-occur in clusters within the selected promoters.  The significance of such co-occurrences is evaluated using novel statistical scores.  Our methods are combined in CREME, a suite of software which includes a browser for viewing the pattern of occurrence of selected cis-regulatory modules.  We applied our methodology to find modules within human-mouse conserved promoter segments, focusing on cell cycle regulated genes and stress response related genes.  To validate the biological significance of the identified modules we tested whether the associated genes tended to be co-expressed or share similar function.  In the cell cycle set five of the seven identified sets of genes were coherently expressed.  On the stress response data four of the six detected sets fell predominantly into well-defined functional sub-categories. 
Result Analysis of the NIPS 2003 Feature Selection Challenge| Abstract The NIPS 2003 workshops included a feature selection competition organized by the authors.  We provided participants with five datasets from dierent application domains and called for classification results using a minimal number of features.  The competition took place over a period of 13 weeks and attracted 78 research groups.  Participants were asked to make on-line submissions on the validation and test sets, with performance on the validation set being presented immediately to the participant and performance on the test set presented to the participants at the workshop.  In total 1863 entries were made on the validation sets during the development period and 135 entries on all test sets for the final competition.  The winners used a combination of Bayesian neural networks with ARD priors and Dirichlet diusion trees.  Other top entries used a variety of methods for feature selection, which combined filters and/or wrapper or embedded methods using Random Forests, kernel methods, or neural networks as a classification engine.  The results of the benchmark (including the predictions made by the participants and the features they selected) and the scoring software are publicly available.  The benchmark is available at www. nipsfsc. ecs. soton. ac. uk for post-challenge submissions to stimulate further research. 
CREME: Cis-Regulatory Module Explorer for the human genome| ABSTRACT The binding of transcription factors to specific regulatory sequence elements is a primary mechanism for controlling gene transcription.  Eukaryotic genes are often regulated by several transcription factors whose binding sites are tightly clustered and form cis-regulatory modules.  In this paper, we present a web server, CREME, for identifying and visualizing cis-regulatory modules in the promoter regions of a given set of potentially co-regulated genes.  CREME relies on a database of putative transcription factor binding sites that have been annotated across the human genome using a library of position weight matrices and evolutionary conservation with the mouseand rat genomes. Asearch algorithm is applied to this data set to identify combinations of transcription factors whose binding sites tend to co-occur in close proximity in the promoter regions of the input gene set.  The identified cis-regulatory modules are statistically scored and significant combinations are reported and graphically visualized.  Our web server is available at http://creme. dcode. org. 
Probabilistic analysis of the phase space flow for linear programming|
A Stability Based Method for Discovering Structure in Clustered Data|
Support Vector Clustering|
Noisy Neural Networks and Generalizations|
Detecting stable clusters using principal component analysis|
A theory of complexity for continuous time systems|
A Support Vector Clustering Method|
Computational Complexity for Continuous Time Dynamics|
ric detection|
Remote homology detection: a motif based approach|
