Diffusion Maps, Spectral Clustering and Eigenfunctions of Fokker-Planck Operators| Abstract This paper presents a diffusion based probabilistic interpretation of spectral clustering and dimensionality reduction algorithms that use the eigenvectors of the normalized graph Laplacian.  Given the pairwise adjacency matrix of all points, we define a diffusion distance between any two data points and show that the low dimensional representation of the data by the first few eigenvectors of the corresponding Markov matrix is optimal under a certain mean squared error criterion.  Furthermore, assuming that data points are random samples from a density p(x) = e -U(x) we identify these eigenvectors as discrete approximations of eigenfunctions of a Fokker-Planck operator in a potential 2U(x) with reflecting boundary conditions.  Finally, applying known results regarding the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the continuous Fokker-Planck operator, we provide a mathematical justification for the success of spectral clustering and dimensional reduction algorithms based on these first few eigenvectors.  This analysis elucidates, in terms of the characteristics of diffusion processes, many empirical findings regarding spectral clustering algorithms. 
This is page i Printer: Opaque this Adaptive Gene Picking with Microarray Data: Detecting Important Low Abundance Signals| ABSTRACT DNA microarrays to evaluate gene expression present tremendous opportunities for understanding complex biological processes.  However, important genes, such as transcription factors and receptors, are expressed at low levels, potentially leading to negative values after adjusting for background.  These low-abundance transcripts have previously been ignored or handled in an ad hoc way.  We describe a method that analyzes genes with low expression using normal scores, and robustly adapts to changing variability across average expression levels.  This approach can be the basis for clustering and other exploratory methods.  Our algorithm also assigns p-values that are sensitive to changes in variability with gene expression.  Together, these two features expand the repertoire of genes that can be analyzed with DNA arrays. 
UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN --- MADISON DEPARTMENT OF STATISTICS Mining for Low-abundance Transcripts in Microarray Data| Summary DNA microarrays to evaluate gene expression present tremendous opportunities for understanding complex biological processes.  However, important genes, such as transcription factors and receptors, are expressed at low levels, potentially leading to negative values after adjusting for background.  These low-abundance transcripts have previously been ignored or handled in an ad hoc way.  We describe a method that analyzes genes with low expression using normal scores, and robustly adapts to changing variability across average expression levels.  This approach can be the basis for clustering and other exploratory methods.  Our algorithm also assigns a data-driven p-value that is sensitive to changes in variability with gene expression.  Together, these two features expand the repertoire of genes that can be analyzed with DNA arrays. 
A qualitative and quantitative visibility analysis in urban scenes|
Shuly Lev-Yehudi, and Daniel Cohen-Or| A qualitative and quantitative visibility analysis in urban scenes. 
Diffusion maps, spectral clustering and reaction coordinates of dynamical systems|
The stationary arrival process of independent di#users from a continuum to an absorbing boundary is Poissonian"|
Density Fluctuations,|
Nuclear localization of the tyrosine kinase Itk and interaction of its SH3 domain with karyopherin alpha (Rch1alpha)|
The expression of adipogenic genes is decreased in obesity and diabetes mellitus|
Signal transduction by the high-affinity immunoglobulin E receptor Fc#RI: Coupling form to function|
Genetic obesity unmasks nonlinear interactions between murine type 2 diabetes susceptibility loci|
Models of boundary behavior of particles diffusing between two concentrations (|
Gene expression profiles of non-diabetic and diabetic obese mice suggest a role of hepatic lipogenic capacity in diabetes susceptibility|
Geometric diffusions as a tool for harmonic analysis and structure definition of data",|
Symmetric products and Q-manifolds,|
Mining for low-abundance transcripts in microarray data|
