Multiple bumps in a neuronal model of working memory| Abstract We study a partial integro-differential equation defined on a spatially extended domain that arises from the modeling of \working" or short-term memory in a neuronal network.  The equation is capable of supporting spatially localized regions of high activity which can be switched \on" and \o#" by transient external stimuli.  We analyze the effects of coupling between units in the network, showing that if the connection strengths decay monotonically with distance then no more than one region of high activity can persist, whereas if they decay in an oscillatory fashion then multiple regions can persist. 
Interval Variability: A Link Between Spike Generation Mechanisms and Cortical Spike Train Statistics| We propose a biophysical mechanism for the high interspike interval variability observed in cortical spike trains.  The key lies in the nonlinear dynamics of cortical spike generation, which are consistent with type I membranes where saddle-node dynamics underlie excitability (Rinzel & Ermentrout, 1989).  We present a canonical model for type I membranes, the -neuron.  The -neuron is a phase model whose dynamics re ect salient features of type I membranes.  This model generates spike trains with coef cient of variation (CV) above 0. 6 when brought to ring by noisy inputs.  This happens because the timing of spikes for a type I excitable cell is exquisitely sensitive to the amplitude of the suprathreshold stimulus pulses.  A noisy input current, giving random amplitude "kicks" to the cell, evokes highly irregular ring across a wide range of ring rates; an intrinsically oscillating cell gives regular spike trains.  We corroborate the results with simulations of the Morris-Lecar (M-L) neural model with random synaptic inputs: type I M-L yields high CVs.  When this model is modi ed to have type II dynamics (periodicity arises via a Hopf bifurcation), however, it gives regular spike trains (CV below 0. 3).  Our results suggest that the high CV values such as those observed in cortical spike trains are an intrinsic characteristic of type I membranes driven to ring by "random" inputs.  In contrast, neural oscillators or neurons exhibiting type II excitability should produce regular spike trains. 
Mathematical neuroscience: from neurons to circuits to systems| Abstract Applications of mathematics and computational techniques to our understanding of neuronal systems are provided. Reduction of membrane models to simplified canonical models demonstrates how neuronal spike-time statistics follow from simple properties
Noise delays onset of sustained "ring in a minimal model of persistent activity| Abstract We report a noise-induced delayof bifurcation leading to persistent synapticallysustained "ring in a simple neural circuit.  Two neural saddle-node oscillators are coupled with reciprocal excitatory synapses.  Increasing synaptic current moves the circuit through a bifurcation into a bistable anti-phase regime.  Applying a small random current to both neurons delays the onset of bistability.  We analyse the phase plane for the various activity regimes and "nd that this noise induced mechansim can be related to the structure of asynchronous and synchronous activity states. 
Turning On and Off with Excitation: The Role of Spike-Timing Asynchrony and Synchrony in Sustained Neural Activity| Abstract Delay-related sustained activity in the prefrontal cortex of primates, a neurological analogue of working memory, has been proposed to arise from synaptic interactions in local cortical circuits.  The implication is that memories are coded by spatially localized foci of sustained activity. Weinvestigate the mechanisms by which sustained foci are initiated, maintained and extinguished by excitation in networks of Hodgkin-Huxley neurons coupled with biophysical spatially-structured synaptic connections.  For networks with a balance between excitation and inhibition, a localized transient stimulus robustly initiates a localized focus of activity.  The activityisthenmaintained by recurrent excitatory AMPA-like synapses.  We find that in order to maintain the focus, the firing must be asynchronous.  Consequently, inducing transient synchrony through an excitatory stimulus extinguishes the sustained activity.  Such a monosynaptic excitatory turn-off mechanism is compatible with the working memory being wiped clean by an efferentcopy of the motor command.  The activity that codes working memories may be structured so that the motor command is both the read-out and a direct clearing signal.  Weshow examples of data that is compatible with our theory. 
Dynamics of Membrane Excitability Determine Inter-Spike Interval Variability: A Link Between Spike Generation Mechanisms and Cortical Spike Train Statistics|
Effects of dopaminergic modulation of persistent sodium currents on the excitability of prefrontal cortical neurons: A computational study|
The Effects of Spike Frequency Adaptation and Negative Feedback on the Synchronization of Neural Oscillators|
Layer 3 patchy recurrent excitatory connections may determine the spatial organization of sustained activity in the primate prefrontal cortex|
Dopaminergic modulation of persistent sodium current affects excitability of prefrontal cortical neurons: a computational study|
