Single Transistor Learning Synapses| ABSTRACT We describe the design, fabrication, characterization, and modeling of an array of single transistor synapses.  The single transistor synapses simultaneously perform long term weight storage, compute the product of the input and floating gate value, and update the weight value according to a hebbian or a backpropagation learning rule.  The charge on the floating gate is decreased by hot electron injection with high selectiviy for a particular synapse.  The charge on the floating gate is increased by electron tunneling, which results in high selectivity between rows, but much lower selectivity between columns along a row.  When the steady state source current is used as the representation of the weight value, both the incrementing and decrementing functions are proportional to a power of the source current. 
A High-Resolution Non-Volatile Analog Memory Cell| AbstractA 3-transistor nonvolatile analog storage cell with 14 bits effective resolution and railto-rail buffered voltage output is presented.  The memory, which consists of charge stored on a MOS transistor floating gate, is written by means of hotelectron injection and erased by means of gate oxide tunneling.  The circuit allows simultaneous memory reading and writing; by writing the memory under feedback control, errors due to oxide mismatch or trapping can be nearly eliminated.  Small size and low power consumption make the cell especially attractive for use in analog neural networks.  The cell is fabricated in a 2 m n-well silicon BiCMOS process available from MOSIS. 
FLOATING-GATE CMOS ANALOG MEMORY CELL ARRAY| ABSTRACT The complexity of analog VLSI systems is often limited by the number of pins on a chip rather than by the die area.  Currently, many analog parameters and biases are stored off chip.  Moving parameter storage on chip could save pins and allow us to create complex programmable analog systems.  In this paper, we present a design for an on-chip non-volatile analog memory cell that can be configured in addressable arrays and programmed easily.  We use floating-gate MOS transistors to store charge, and we use the processes of tunneling and hot-electron injection to program values.  We achieve greater than 13-bit precision with no crosstalk between memory cells. 
A Single-Transistor Silicon Synapse| Abstract--- We have developed a new floating-gate silicon MOS transistor for analog learning applications.  The memory storage is nonvolatile; hot-electron injection and electron tunneling permit bidirectional memory updates.  Because these updates depend on both the stored memory value and the transistor terminal voltages, the synapse can implement a learning function.  We have derived a memory-update rule from the physics of the tunneling and injection processes, and have investigated synapse learning in a prototype array.  Unlike conventional EEPROM devices, the synapse allows simultaneous memory reading and writing.  Synapse transistor arrays can therefore compute both the array output, and local memory updates, in parallel.  The synapse is small, and typically is operated at subthreshold current levels; it will permit the development of dense, low-power silicon learning systems. 
A FLOATING-GATE TECHNOLOGY FOR DIGITAL CMOS PROCESSES| ABSTRACT We discuss the possibility of developing high-quality floatinggate memories and circuits in digital CMOS technologies that have only one layer of polysilicon.  Here, the primary concern is whether or not we can get adequate control-gate linearity from MOS capacitors.  We employ two experimental proceedures to address this issue and find acceptable floating-gate circuit behavior with MOS capacitors.  First, we simultaniously characterize a MOS capacitor and a linear capacitor; the experimental data show that MOS capacitors behave similarly to linear capacitors over a finite, but usable range.  Second, we characterize two typical floating-gate MOS circuit primatives, a floating-gate amplifier and a multiple-input translinear element, two basic circuits that rely heavily on the linearity of the capacitors that couple into the floating gates.  Our measurements show that floatinggate circuits with MOS-capacitor control gates behave like their counterparts built with linear capacitors over specific regions of operation. 
A Second-Order Section built from Autozeroing Floating-Gate Amplifiers| Abstract| We introduce the Autozeroing Floating-Gate Second-Order Section.  We built this second-order filter where the corner frequency and Q are electronically tunable based on a classic filter topology and principles of OTA amplifiers.  We built this second-order filter using three AFGAs| our floatinggate amplifier that sets its operating point by the interaction of hot-electron injection and electron-tunneling.  We introduce the Autozeroing Second-Order Section (AutoSOS) in this paper, based upon our earlier work [1-4] The second-order section is the primary element to build higherorder filters, both in continuous-time and switch-capacitor circuits.  Figure 1 shows the autozeroing second-order section.  This circuit is based on the Di#2 second-order section [5], which in turn is based on a canonical form for a second-order section as a high-gain amplifier with feedback.  This circuit uses the autozeroing #oating-gate amplifier (AFGA) that we invented previously [1], [2], [3].  The AFGA does not require any clocking to eliminate offsets, as in switched-capacitor circuits [6], but utilizes an inherent combination of electron-tunneling and hotelectron{injection currents to eliminate the DC signal.  This paper illustrates how to build higher-order filters from AFGAs, as well as proving the feasibility of circuits with multiple #oating-gate devices.  Using AFGAs as the core filter block merges many of the benefits of switched-capacitor [6], and transconductance-ampli#er or OTA [5] filters.  The AFGAbased filters can tuned electronically the corner frequencies over many orders of magnitude, as in transconductance-ampli#ers.  Because many of the AFGA's circuit properties|bandpass gain, linear range, and dynamic range|are set by ratios of capacitors, the AFGA-based filters utilize capacitor matching as is done in switched-capacitor filters.  Also, the AFGA filters its offsets, 1=f noise without resorting to the chopper-stabilizing clocking schemes present in switched-capacitor [6] filters.  We present data from circuits fabricated in a 2#m n-well Orbit CMOS process available through MOSIS.  Typical operating values for Vtun were between 33V to 42V ; those for Vdd were 6V to 12V .  We obtain similar data in the 1:2#m n-well Orbit CMOS process, but with typical operating values for Vtun between 26V and 31V .  For processes with smaller line widths, the typical operating voltages will decrease due to the thinner gate oxide and higher substrate doping. 
FLOATING-GATE DEVICES: THEY ARE NOT JUST FOR DIGITAL MEMORIES ANYMORE| ABSTRACT Since the first reported #oating-gate structure in 1967, floatinggate transistors have been used widely to store digital information for long periods in structures suchasEPROMs and EEPROMs.  Recently, #oating-gate devices have found applications as analog memories, analog and digital circuit elements, and adaptive processing elements.  Floating-gate devices have found commerical applications, e. g.  ISD, for long-term non-volatile information storage devices for analog applications.  The focus of #oating-gate devices has been towards fabrication in standard CMOS processes, as opposed to the specialized processes for fabricating digital nonvolatile memories.  Floating-gate circuits can be designed at any or all of three levels: analog memory elements, capacitive-based circuit elements, and adaptive circuit elements.  In 1967, Kahng and Sze reported the first #oating-gate structure as a mechanism for nonvolatile information storage [1].  Since then, #oating-gate transistors have been used widely to store digital information for long periods in structures suchasEPROMs, EEPROMs, and Flash memories [2, 3].  Figure 1 sketches the growth of non-volatile digital technology from the inception of the #oating-gate device in 1967.  These digital nonvolatile memory technologies have only been fabricated on specialized IC processes.  Even though digital memories have been the primary application for #oating-gate devices, recently #oating-gate devices have been used as circuit elements.  Floating-gate devices are not inherently digital memories, it only depends upon the way the circuit designer uses the available technology.  Figure 1 also sketches the progress of #oating-gate devices and circuits other than EEPROM devices.  The research in #oating-gate circuits has been exponentially increasing over the last several years; the goal is to further develop this technology to give researchers a wider set of solutions in solving integrated circuit problems.  The focus of this paper, whichintroduces the special session on #oating-gate devices and circuits, is to show that floatinggate devices are not just for memories anymore, but are circuit elements with analog memory and important timedomain dynamics. 
An Adaptive WTA using Floating Gate Technology| Abstract We have designed, fabricated, and tested an adaptive Winner-Take--All (WTA) circuit based upon the classic WTA of Lazzaro, et al [1].  We have added a time dimension (adaptation) to this circuit to make the input derivative an important factor in winner selection.  To accomplish this, we have modified the classic WTA circuit by adding floating gate transistors which slowly null their inputs over time.  We present a simplified analysis and experimental data of this adaptive WTA fabricated in a standard CMOS 2m process.  1 Winner--Take--All Circuits In a WTA network, each cell has one input and one output.  For any set of inputs, the outputs will all be at zero except for the one which is from the cell with the maximum input.  One way to accomplish this is by a global nonlinear inhibition coupled with a self-excitation term [2].  Each cell inhibits all others while exciting itself; thus a cell with even a slightly greater input than the others will excite itself up to its maximal state and inhibit the others down to their minimal states.  The WTA function is important for many classical neural nets that involve competitive learning, vector quantization and feature mapping.  The classic WTA network characterized by Lazzaro et.  al.  [1] is an elegant, simple circuit that shares just one common line among all cells of the network to propagate the inhibition.  Our motivation to add adaptation comes from the idea of saliency maps.  Picture a saliency map as a large number of cells each of which encodes an analog value V dd V dd V dd I 1 I 2 V tun01 V tun02 C 1 C 2 M1 M2 M3 M4 M5 C 2 C 1 V b C L V 1 V 2 V fg1 V fg2 I out1 I out2 C L V Figure 1: The circuit diagram of a two input winner-take-all circuit.  reflecting some measure of the importance (saliency) of its input.  We would like to pay attention to the most salient cell, so we employ a WTA function to tell us where to look.  But if the input doesn't change, we never look away from that one cell.  We would like to introduce some concept of fatigue and refraction to each cell such that after winning for some time, it tires, allowing other cells to win, and then it must wait some time before it can win again.  We call this circuit an adaptive WTA.  In this paper, we present an adaptive WTA based upon the classic WTA; Figure 1 shows a two-input, adaptive WTA circuit.  The difference between the classic and adaptive WTA is that M 4 and M 5 are pFET single transistor synapses.  A single transistor synapse [3] is either an nFET or pFET transistor with a floating gate and a tunneling junction.  This enhancement results in the ability of each transistor to adapt to its input bias current.  The adaptation is a result of the electron tunneling and hot-electron injection modifying the charge on the floating gate; equilibrium is established when the tunneling current equals the injection current.  The circuit is devised in such a way that these are negative feedback mechanisms, consequently the output voltage will always return to the same steady state voltage determined by its bias current regardless of the DC input level.  Like the autozeroing amplifier [4], the adaptive WTA is an example of a circuit where the adaptation occurs as a natural part of the circuit operation.  2 pFET hot-electron injection and electron tunneling Before considering the behavior of the adaptive WTA, we will review the processes of electron tunneling and hot-electron injection in pFETs.  In subthreshold operation, we can describe the channel current of a pFET (I p ) for a differential change in gate voltage, \DeltaV g , around a fixed bias current I so , as I p = I so exp i\Gamma \DeltaV g UT j where p is the amount by which \DeltaV g affects the surface potential of the pFET, and U T is kT q .  We will assume for this paper that all transistors are identical.  First, we consider electron tunneling.  We start with the classic model of electron
Homeostasis in a Silicon Integrate and Fire Neuron| Abstract In this work, we explore homeostasis in a silicon integrate-and-fire neuron.  The neuron adapts its firing rate over long time periods on the order of seconds or minutes so that it returns to its spontaneous firing rate after a lasting perturbation.  Homeostasis is implemented via two schemes.  One scheme looks at the presynaptic activity and adapts the synaptic weight depending on the presynaptic spiking rate.  The second scheme adapts the synaptic "threshold" depending on the neuron's activity.  The threshold is lowered if the neuron's activity decreases over a long time and is increased for prolonged increase in postsynaptic activity.  Both these mechanisms for adaptation use floating-gate technology.  The results shown here are measured from a chip fabricated in a 2- m CMOS process. 
An Autozeroing Floating-Gate Amplifier| Abstract---We have developed a bandpass floating-gate amplifier that uses tunneling and pFET hot-electron injection to set its dc operating point adaptively.  Because the hot-electron injection is an inherent part of the pFET's behavior, we obtain this adaptation with no additional circuitry.  Because the gate currents are small, the circuit exhibits a high-pass characteristic with a cutoff frequency less than 1 Hz.  The high-frequency cutoff is controlled electronically, as is done in continuous-time filters.  We have derived analytical models that completely characterize the amplifier and that are in good agreement with experimental data for a wide range of operating conditions and input waveforms.  This autozeroing floating-gate amplifier demonstrates how to use continuous-time floating-gate adaptation in amplifier design. 
AN AUTOZEROING FLOATING-GATE BANDPASS FILTER| ABSTRACT Wehave developed a bandpass #oating-gate amplifier that uses tunneling and pFET hot-electron injection to set its DC operating point adaptively.  Because the gate currents are small, the circuit exhibits a high-pass characteristic with a cutoff frequency less than 1 Hz.  The high-frequency cutoff is controlled electronically, as is done in continuous-time filters.  Wehave derived analytical models that completely characterize the amplifier and that are in good agreement with experimental data.  This autozeroing #oating-gate ampli#er demonstrates howtousecontinuous-time, floatinggate adaptation in amplifier design.  We previously introduced the autozeroing #oating-gate amplifier (AFGA)[1]; here, we use the AFGA as an integrated continuous-time bandpass filter.  Figure 1 shows the autozeroing #oating-gate amplifier.  The open-loop ampli#er consists of a pFET input transistor and an nFET current source.  With capacitive feedback, the input signal is amplified by a closed-loop gain approximately equal to , C 1 C 2 .  We present data from an AFGA fabricated in the 2#m nwell Orbit CMOS process available through MOSIS.  Typical operating values for Vtun were between 33V and 42V ; those for Vdd were between 6V and 12V .  We obtained similar data in the 1:2#m nwell Orbit CMOS process, but with typical operating values for Vtun between 26V and 31V .  For more modern processes, the typical operating voltages will decrease, because of thinner gate oxides and higher dopant impurity concentrations.  1.  TIME-DOMAIN AFGA RESPONSE The complementary nFET and pFET currents adjust the output voltage such that the amplifier's #oating-gate voltage returns to its steady-state value on an intermediate time scale.  This circuit behavior translates to alow-pass filter with a short time constant at the output voltage.  The quiescent source current(Is0) is set by the nFET current source.  We model the nFET transistor as an ideal current source setting the bias current, Iso , for the AFGA.  We describe the channel current of the pFET by Ip = Iso exp # , ##Vg UT # ; (1) where # is the fractional change in the pFET surface potential due to a change in #Vg , and UT is the thermal Figure 1: An autozeroing #oating-gate amplifier (AFGA) that uses pFET hot-electron injection.  The ratio of C2 to C1 sets the gain of this inverting amplifier.  The nFET is a current source, and it sets the current through the pFET.  Steady state occurs when the injection current is equal to the tunneling current.  The capacitances, Cw and CL , represent both the parasitic and the explicitly drawn capacitances.  Between Vtun and V fg is our symbol for a tunneling junction, which is a capacitor between the #oating-gate and an nwell.  voltage, kT q .  We showed previously that for our operating conditions the AFGA's open-loop gain also is large (# 1000) and nearly constant [2].  Since the output capacitances are charged or discharged by currents on the scale of Is0 , the cutoff frequency will be directly dependenton the bias current.  Continuous-time integrators operate on a similar principle [3, 4].  The complementary tunneling and hot-electron injection processes adjust the #oating-gate charge such that the amplifier's output voltage returns to its steady-state value on a slow time scale.  The combination of electron tunneling and pFET hot-electron injection applies the appropriate negative feedback to stabilize the output voltage.  If the output voltage is below its equilibrium value, then the injection current exceeds the tunneling current, decreasing the charge on the floating gate; that, in turn, increases the
Adaptive Circuits Using pFET Floating-Gate Devices| Abstract In this paper, we describe our floating-gate pFET device, with its many circuit applications and supporting experimental measurements.  We developed these devices in standard double-poly CMOS technologies by utilizing many effects inherent in these processes.  We add floating-gate charge by electron tunneling, and we remove floatinggate charge by hot-electron injection.  With this floating-gate technology, we can not only build analog EEPROMs, we can also implement adaptation and learning when we consider floating-gate devices to be circuit elements with important time-domain dynamics.  We start by discussing non-adaptive properties of floating-gate devices and we present two representative non-adaptive applications.  First, we discuss using the floating-gate pFETs as non-volatile voltage sources or potentiometers (e-pots).  Second, we will discuss using floating-gate pFETs to build translinear circuits that compute the product of powers of the input currents.  We then discuss the physics, behavior, and applications of adaptation using floating-gate pFETs.  The physics of adaptation start with floating-gate pFETs with continuous tunneling and injection currents.  A single floating-gate MOS device operating with continuous-time tunneling and injection currents can exhibit either stabilizing or destabilizing behaviors.  One particular application is an autozeroing floating-gate amplifier (AFGA) that uses tunneling and pFET hot-electron injection to adaptively set its DC operating point.  Continuous-time circuits comprising multiple floating-gate MOS devices show various competitive and cooperative behaviors between devices.  These floating-gate circuits can be used to build silicon systems that adapt and learn.  In 1967, Kahng and Sze reported the first floating-gate structure as a mechanism for nonvolatile information storage [1].  Since then, floating-gate transistors have been used widely to store digital information for long periods in structures such as EPROMs, EEPROMs, and flash memories.  These digital nonvolatile memory technologies have only been fabricated on specialized and expensive processes.  FGMOS transistors have also been used as long-term non-volatile information storage devices for analog applications [2].  The focus of this paper is show that floating-gate devices are not just for memories anymore, but are also computational circuit elements with analog memory and important time-domain dynamics.  We will paint a coherent picture of the capabilities of pFET floating-gate devices starting from the work that we [3-15] and other colleagues [16-22] have developed over the last 10 years, and including recent research results.  We emphasize pFET floating-gate devices in this paper because any CMOS process will always have pFET injection for subthreshold and above-threshold biases.  A second and related focus is to show the availability and functionality of these floating-gate devices on standard CMOS processes.  To build floating-gate devices in a standard CMOS process, we use several inherent physical mechanisms (hot-electron injection, electron tunneling, DIBL) that are avoided by classical IC designers, mechanisms that will become more pronounced as the linewidths of CMOS processes continue to scale down.  All figures in this paper are our experimental measurements from floating-gate devices fabricated in 2. 0m and 1. 2m MOSIS processes.  n-well n-well p-substrate p + p + Cross-Section Slice n-well n-well V tun Vd Vs V in Floating-Gate C1 Figure 1: Layout, cross section, and circuit diagram of the floating-gate pFET in a standard double-poly nwell MOSIS process.  The cross section corresponds to the horizonatal line slicing through the layout view.  The pFET transistor is the standard pFET transistor in the nwell process.  The gate input capacitively couples to the floating-gate by either a poly-poly capacitor, a diffused linear capacitor, or a MOS capacitor, as seen in the circuit diagram (not explicitly shown in the other two figures).  We add floating-gate charge by electron tunneling, and we remove floating-gate charge by hot-electron injection.  The tunneling junctions used by the single-transistor synapses is a region of gate oxide between the polysilicon floating-gate and nwell (a MOS capacitor).  Between Vtun and the floating-gate is our symbol for a tunneling junction, a capacitor with an added arrow designating the charge flow. 
Synthesis of Static and Dynamic Multiple-Input Translinear Element Networks| Abstract In this report, we shall review some of the basic concepts of translinear circuits and establish their connection to the theory of networks of multiple-input translinear elements (MITEs).  We shall also establish some basic important results relating to the construction of MITE networks from translinear-loop equations and illustrate the basic construction procedure with some simple examples.  Then, we turn to discuss the process of synthesizing static and dynamic MITE networks from high-level descriptions given in the time domain in terms of static polynomial constraints and algebraic differential equations and provide several examples, illustrating the process for both static and dynamic system constraints. 
A FOUR-QUADRANT FLOATING-GATE SYNAPSE| ABSTRACT We present a new type of pFET synapse; by degenerating the source, the oxide currents provide stabilizing feedback to the floating gate and to the drain.  We present experimental measurements from a #oating-gate synapse that simultaniously computes four-quadrant products of its input and weightvalues, and computes a four-quadrant correlation, typical of hebbian and backpropagation learning rules, between the input and drain voltages.  Our four-quadrant synapse is built from two source-degenerated pFET synapses; by adding weak exponential feedback to the source of a #oating-gate pFET synapse, we obtain a #oating-gate synapse with unique dynamical properties.  This four-quadrant synapse can become the fundamental building block of many continuoustime neural-network learning algorithms.  Floating-gate devices have come to be seen not only as memory elements, but as continuous-time circuit elements operating a variety of timescales.  This paper presents a #oating-gate synapse that computes four-quadrant products of its input (X i ) and its weightvalue (W i;j ), and computes a four-quadrant correlation of the input and error signal (e i ).  Figure 1 shows a diagram of a continuously adapting neural array; the inset shows schematically the synapse computations for the i th row and for the jth column.  This error signal could either be a function of the output, as in Hebbian or other unsupervised algorithms, or due to an error in the desired output, as in gradient-descent algorithms.  Four-quadrantmultiplications are essential in most adaptive-#lter and neural-network applications.  Biological synapses use two-quadrantmultiplications, but excitatory (positive multiplication) and inhibitory (negative multiplication) synapses are used in a cooperative fashion to achieve this functionality when needed [3].  Our four-quadrant #oating-gate synapses, as well as our previous synapses [2], are well suited to large synaptic arrays because of five important properties.  First, in the absence of learning, the weight is stored permanently, because the charge leakage from a floating gate is negligible.  Second, the synapse's output current is the four-quadrant product of the input signal with the synaptic weight.  Third, because our synapse only requires two #oating-gate transistors per synapse, the synapse still requires minimal area.  Fourth, the synapse can dissipate a minimal amountofpower, because it can operate at subthreshold current levels.  Fifth, this synapse implements a four-quadrant learning rule for Synapse W Input 2 Synapse W Input N Synapse W Input 1 Neuron Output W i,j ( )dt X j e i I out "Error Signal" Figure 1: Schematic diagram of a continuously-adapting neural network.  The neuron block cuold span the range from a sinple transresistance element to a biologically inspired neuron model.  Inset: Block diagram of a synapse at the i th row and at the j th column in this neural array.  A continuous-time synapse simultaniously outputs the product of its input (X j ) and its weight value (W i;j ), as well as updating the weightvalue based on the product of its input and the broadcasted error signal (e i ).  Ideally, wewant the multiplications to be four-quadrantmultiplies.  modifying the weight on the floating gate; the form of this rule depends on howvarious error signals are fed backto the floating gate.  1.  SOURCE-DEGENERATED PFET SYNAPSE Figure 2 shows the circuit model for the source-degenerated (s-d) pFET synapse; we presented the initial results previously [2].  Previous nFET or pFET synapses provided only either stabilizing feedback to the floating gate or stabilizing feedback to the drain; the gate currents of this s-d pFET synapse provide stabilizing feedback to both the floating gate and to the drain, making it a practical candidate for continuously operating arrays of #oating-gate synapses.  We will assume that all the #oating-gate devices are matched.  We define CT as the total amount of capacitance connected V in k x V dd V tun V d C 1 V fg V 1234567 Gate voltage (V)
An autozeroing amplifier using pFET hot-electron injection,|
Floating-gate CMOS analog memory cell array,|
Floating-Gate Devices and Circuits,"|
Floating-gate MOS synapse transistors,|
Translinear circuits using subthreshold floating-gate MOS transistors,|
The matching of small capacitors for analog VLSI,|
An Analytic model of Hot Electron Injection from Boltzman Transport",|
Adaptive circuits and synapses using pFET floating-gate devices, "|
\A Floating-Gate MOS Learning Array with Locally Computed Weight Updates,|
Floating-gate MOS learning systems|
"A single transistor silicon MOS device for long term learning,"|
The MultipleInput Tranlinear Element: A Versatile Circuit Element,|
\An autozeroing #oating-gate amplifier", Circuits and Systems II: Digital and Analog Signal Processing,|
Synthesis of Multiple-Input Translinear Element Log-Domain Filters,"|
Analysis,|
Analysis and Synthesis of Static Translinear Circuits,|
Synthesis of Dynamic Multiple-Input Translinear Element Networks,|
Translinear Analog Signal Processing: A Modular Approach to Large-Scale Analog Computation with Multiple-Input Translinear Elements|
Multiple-Input Translinear Element Log-Domain Filters,|
A transistor-only circuit model of the autozeroing floating-gate amplifier,|
