Identity Uncertainty and Citation Matching| Abstract Identity uncertainty is a pervasive problem in real-world data analysis.  It arises whenever objects are not labeled with unique identifiers or when those identifiers may not be perceived perfectly.  In such cases, two observations may or may not correspond to the same object.  In this paper, we consider the problem in the context of citation matching---the problem of deciding which citations correspond to the same publication.  Our approach is based on the use of a relational probability model to define a generative model for the domain, including models of author and title corruption and a probabilistic citation grammar.  Identity uncertainty is handled by extending standard models to incorporate probabilities over the possible mappings between terms in the language and objects in the domain.  Inference is based on Markov chain Monte Carlo, augmented with specific methods for generating efficient proposals when the domain contains many objects.  Results on several citation data sets show that the method outperforms current algorithms for citation matching.  The declarative, relational nature of the model also means that our algorithm can determine object characteristics such as author names by combining multiple citations of multiple papers. 
Probabilistic Models for Agent's Beliefs and Decisions| Abstract Many applications of intelligent systems require reasoning about the mental states of agents in the domain.  We may want to reason about an agent's beliefs, including beliefs about other agents; we may also want to reason about an agent's preferences, and how his beliefs and preferences relate to his behavior.  We define a probabilistic epistemic logic (PEL) in which belief statements are given a formal semantics, and provide an algorithm for asserting and querying PEL formulas in Bayesian networks.  We then show how to reason about an agent's behavior by modeling his decision process as an influence diagram and assuming that he behaves rationally.  PEL can then be used for reasoning from an agent's observed actions to conclusions about other aspects of the domain, including unobserved domain variables and the agent's mental states. 
CS 281B Project Report: Marginalized Kernels for Object Recognition| Abstract It is relatively easy to obtain sets of images that are known to contain objects of a certain category, such as "face", or "bicycle".  There has been promising work on using such data sets --- without any manual labeling of object features --- to learn generative models for object categories [4, 1].  These models can then be used to detect instances of the categories in other images.  However, these generative models may not be the best tools for discriminating between, say, bicycles and motorcycles.  In this report, we investigate a discriminative approach that builds on the generative models.  Specifically, we use a marginalized kernel that sums over possible matchings of image regions to object parts.  We find that the marginalized kernel performs much better than the generative model alone on distinguishing between object categories, improving accuracy by up to 14 percentage points. 
Searching the Web by Voice| Abstract Spoken queries are a natural medium for searching the Web in settings where typing on a keyboard is not practical.  This paper describes a speech interface to the Google search engine.  We present experiments with various statistical language models, concluding that a unigram model with collocations provides the best combination of broad coverage, predictive power, and real-time performance.  We also report accuracy results of the prototype system. 
Multi-Agent Influence Diagrams for Representing and Solving Games| Abstract The traditional representations of games using the extensive form or the strategic (normal) form obscure much of the structure that is present in real-world games.  In this paper, we propose a new representation language for general multiplayer games --- multi-agent influence diagrams (MAIDs). 
A system for probabilistic object-oriented knowledge representation| Abstract In previous work, we pointed out the limitations of standard Bayesian networks as a modeling framework for large, complex domains.  We proposed a new, richly structured modeling language, Object-oriented Bayesian Networks, that we argued would be able to deal with such domains.  However, it turns out that OOBNs are not expressive enough to model many interesting aspects of complex domains: the existence of specific named objects, arbitrary relations between objects, and uncertainty over domain structure.  These aspects are crucial in real-world domains such as battlefield awareness.  In this paper, we present SPOOK, an implemented system that addresses these limitations.  SPOOK implements a more expressive language that allows it to represent the battlespace domain naturally and compactly.  We present a new inference algorithm that utilizes the model structure in a fundamental way, and show empirically that it achieves orders of magnitude speedup over existing approaches. 
BLOG: Relational Modeling with Unknown Objects| Abstract In many real-world probabilistic reasoning problems, one of the questions we want to answer is: how many objects are out there? Examples of such problems range from multitarget tracking to extracting information from text documents.  However, most probabilistic modeling formalisms --- even firstorder ones --- assume a fixed, known set of objects.  We introduce a language called Blog for specifying probability distributions over relational structures that include varying sets of objects.  In this paper we present Blog informally, by means of example models for multi-target tracking and citation matching.  We discuss some attractive features of Blog models and some avenues of future work. 
First-Order Probabilistic Models for Information Extraction| Abstract Information extraction (IE) is the problem of constructing a knowledge base from a corpus of text documents.  In this paper, we argue that firstorder probabilistic models (FOPMs) are a promising framework for IE, for two main reasons.  First, FOPMs allow us to reason explicitly about entites that are mentioned in multiple documents, and compute the probability that two strings refer to the same entity --- thus addressing the problem of coreference or record linkage in a principled way.  Second, FOPMs allow us to resolve ambiguities in a text passage using information from the whole corpus, rather than disambiguating based on local cues alone and then trying to merge the results into a coherent knowledge base.  This paper presents a comprehensive FOPM for a bibliographic database, and explains how the desired inference patterns emerge from the model. 
SPOOK: A system for probabilistic object-oriented knowledge representation| Abstract In previous work, we pointed out the limitations of standard Bayesian networks as a modeling framework for large, complex domains.  We proposed a new, richly structured modeling language, Object-oriented Bayesian Networks, that we argued would be able to deal with such domains.  However, it turns out that OOBNs are not expressive enough to model many interesting aspects of complex domains: the existence of specific named objects, arbitrary relations between objects, and uncertainty over domain structure.  These aspects are crucial in real-world domains such as battlefield awareness.  In this paper, we present SPOOK, an implemented system that addresses these limitations.  SPOOK implements a more expressive language that allows it to represent the battlespace domain naturally and compactly.  We present a new inference algorithm that utilizes the model structure in a fundamental way, and show empirically that it achieves orders of magnitude speedup over existing approaches. 
Query-free news search|
BLOG: Probablistic models with unknown objects|
Learning and Its Connections to Other Fields,|
First-order probabilistic models with unknown objects|
