-A Review of Frame Technology| Abstract Frame Technology was introduced during the early 1980's as an approach to providing significant levels of improvement in software productivity through adaptive reuse.  However, despite the claims of order of magnitude improvements and reuse levels of 90%, this technology does not appear to have acquired a corresponding level of popularity, appearing to loose out to the more recent technologies of generative programming and aspect oriented programming.  Our interest frame technology stems from our work on the meta-modelling of feature models to support the expression of product line architectures in the UML using a meta-modelling research tool.  Whist the tool provides direct support for templates, we sought an approach that would approximate to customisable templates, allowing us to generate specific configurations in response to user choices by severing unused features.  Frame Technology appears to offer a potential solution and we present a summary of our investigation of this technology.  Finally, we propose future directions of study based around a meta-modelling approach. 
CALCULATING FOREST BIOMASS WITH SMALL FORMAT AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY, VIDEOGRAPHY AND A PROFILING LASER| ABSTRACT This paper reviews an aerial
Cost-Effective Determination of Biomass from Aerial Images| Abstract This paper describes an ongoing collaborative research program between the Computer Science and the Forestry and Wildlife Management Departments at the University of Massachusetts to develop cost-effective methodologies for monitoring biomass and other environmental parameters over large areas.  The data acquisition system consists of a differential GPS system, a 3-axis solid state inertial reference system, a small format (70mm) aerial survey camera, two video cameras, a laser profiling altimeter, and a PC based data recording system.  Two aerial survey techniques for determining biomass are discussed.  One primarily based on video and the other relying additionally on the 3D terrain models generated from the aerial photographs.  In the first technique, transects are flown at 1,000 feet with dual-camera wide angle and zoom video, and a profiling laser operating at 238 Hz.  The video coverage is used to identify individual tree species, and the laser profiler is used to estimate tree heights.  The second procedure builds on this approach by taking sequences of 70mm photographs with an 80% overlap along a second higher altitude flight line at 4,000 feet.  Detailed 3D terrain models are then generated from successive pairs of images.  Several state-of-the-are computer vision algorithms are discussed, including the ITL system, which is an interactive ground cover classification system that allows an operator to quickly classify the large areas in a real-time, and Terrest, which is a highly robust 3D terrain modeling system.  The work described in this paper is in a preliminary phase and all of the constituent technologies have not been fully integrated, we nevertheless demonstrated the value and feasibility of using computer vision techniques to solve environmental monitoring problems on a large scale. 
INTEGRATING SMALL FORMAT AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY, VIDEOGRAPHY, AND A LASER PROFILER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING| semi-automatic, cost-effective methodologies for monitoring environmental parameters over large areas.  To meet these challenges we built a moderate cost system comprised of offthe-shelf instruments, including a differential GPS, a 3-axis solid state attitude and heading reference system, two mini-DV camcorders, a small format aerial survey camera, a profiling laser altimeter, and a PC based data acquisition system.  The quality and format of the video and digitized photographic data were chosen to provide high quality input to several state-of-the-are computer vision algorithms for 3D terrain modeling, and ground cover classification.  Although the work described in this paper is in a preliminary phase and all of the constituent technologies have not been fully integrated, we nevertheless demonstrated the value and feasibility of using the system to solve environmental monitoring problems on a large scale. 
D atlas of the human brain|
The application of audio-frequency magnetotellurics (AMT) to mineral exploration,|
Genetic polymorphisms in sepsis and septic shock: role in prognosis and potential for therapy|
New Uses for New Phylogenies,chapter Using phylogenetic trees to reconstruct the history of infectious disease epidemics,|
Intensity-amplitude relationships in monkey evenrelated potentials: Parallels to human augmenting-reducing responses|
Support for Feature Modelling in the UML',|
An ordinal method of evaluation: A rejoinder,|
Towards a Free and Open Source (FOSS) Spatial Data Infrastructure|
Non-stationary covariance functions via spatially adaptive spectra|
Image reconstruction of data from SUPER PETT 1: a first generation time-of-flight positron emission tomograph|
Children's inferences with print and pictures|
Spatially adaptive non-stationary covariance functions via spatially adaptive spectra,|
D MRI atlas of the human cerebellum in proportional stereotaxic space|
Temperature measurements and dissociation of shock-compressed liquid deuterium and hydrogen|
The equation of state of platinum to 660 GPa (6|6 Mbar). 
Some quadratic systems with a separatrix cycles surrounding a limit cycle,|
The Independence of Horizontal and Vertical Dimensions in Handwriting with and without Vision|
The New Zealand priority criteria project| Part 1: overview. 
Positive ion composition of a temperate-latitude sporadic E layer as observed during a rocket ight,|
