Mathematical Aspects of Unique Signal Assessment| Weapons," SAND91-1269, which provides a prerequisite fundamental background on the unique signal (UQS) concept.  The UQS is one of the key constituents of Enhanced Nuclear Detonation Safety (ENDS), as outlined in Section 1 of that report.  There have been many documents written over the past quarter of a century describing various aspects of the UQS, but none of these emphasized the mathematical approaches that help explain why the UQS is effective in resisting inadvertent pre-arming, even in abnormal environments and how UQS implementations can be quantitatively assessed.  The intent of this report is to describe various pertinent mathematical methodologies (many of which have not been previously reported) without duplicating, any more than necessary, background information available in other reports.  Mathematical UQS analysis is needed because of quantitative requirements associated with ENDS, and because limited comparisons of various implementation approaches can be quantified under mathematical modeling assumptions.  Some of the mathematics-based results shown in this report are presented to explain: 1.  The reasons that the UQS methodology can provide greater protection against accident environments than could combinational techniques (Sections 2. 1 through 2. 4) 2.  The reason that the probability of inadvertently duplicating a UQS comprising n bivalued events cannot be estimated as low as n 2 1 (Section 2. 4) 3.  The value of, and the Sandia National Laboratories policy on independent sequential communication of UQS events (Section 3. 4) 4.  The care that must be exercised if any signal processing is necessary (Section 4).  There are also numerous examples (e. g. , in Appendices A and B) of ill-advised deviations from UQS methodology that can seriously degrade safety.  These examples help demonstrate that the UQS methodology should not be compromised. 
Enhancing usability in CITIDEL: multimodal, multilingual, and interactive visualization interfaces| ABSTRACT CITIDEL employs a modular system design to support education in computer science and related fields.  By taking advantage of its modular nature, we have made interface enhancements that draw from different fields in computer science.  Examples are the incorporation of interactive visualizations, usability enhancements, multimodal interactions, and community multilingual translation.  Pilot studies demonstrate the resulting improvements in quality, as measured across a number of metrics. 
A CRT-Based Montgomery Multiplication for Finite Fields of Small Characteristic| Abstract--- We propose a new CRT-based multiplication algorithm for finite fields F p k of small prime characteristic, whose complexity does not depend on a special form of the reduction polynomial.  With a complexity of O(k 3/2 ) this is the first general subquadratic algorithm for fields of small odd characteristic. 
Computer Verification of the Ankeny-Artin-Chowla Conjecture for All Primes| ABSTRACT Let p be a prime congruent to 1 modulo 4 and let t, u be rational integers such that (t + u p p )/2 is the fundamental unit of the real quadratic field Q( p p ).  The Ankeny-Artin-Chowla Conjecture (AACC) asserts that p will not divide u.  This is equivalent to the assertion that p will not divide B (p- 1)/2 ,whereB n denotes the n th Bernoulli number.  Although first published in 1952, this conjecture still remains unproved today.  Indeed, it appears to be most difficult to prove.  Even testing the conjecture can be quite challenging because of the size of the numbers t, u; for example, when p = 40 094 470 441, then both t and u exceed 10 330000 .  In 1988 the AAC conjecture was verified by computer for all p<10 9 .  In this paper we describe a new technique for testing the AAC conjecture and we provide some results of a computer run of the method for all primes
Scientific Data Mining, Integration, and Visualization| This report summarises the workshop on Scientific Data Mining, Integration and Visualization (SDMIV) held at the e-Science Institute, Edinburgh (eSI[1] ) on 24-25 October 2002, and presents a set of recommendations arising from the discussion that took place there.  The aims of the workshop were three-fold: (A) To inform researchers in the SDMIV communities of the infrastructural advances being made by computing initiatives, such as the Grid; (B) To feed back requirements from the SDMIV areas to those developing the computational infrastructure; and (C) To foster interaction among all these communities, since the coordinated efforts of all of them will be required to realise the potential for scientific knowledge extraction offered by e-science initiatives worldwide.  The workshop had about fifty participants, ranging from software engineers developing Grid infrastructure software, to computer scientists with expertise in data mining and visualization, to application specialists from a wide range of disciplines,
THE SIZE OF THE FUNDAMENTAL SOLUTIONS OF CONSECUTIVE PELL EQUATIONS| Abstract.  Let D be a positive integer such that D; D\Gamma 1 are not perfect squares; denote by X 0 ; Y 0 ; X 1 ; Y 1 the least positive integers such that X 2 0 \Gamma (D \Gamma 1)Y 2 0 = 1; X 2 1 \Gamma DY 2 1 = 1; and put ae(D) = log X 1 = log X 0 : We prove here that ae(D) can be arbitrarily large.  Indeed, we exhibit an infinite family of values of D for which ae(D) AE D 1=6 = log D: We also provide some heuristic reasoning which suggests that there exists an infinitude of values of D for which ae(D) AE p D log log D= log D; and that this is the best possible result under the Extended Riemann Hypothesis.  Finally, we present some numerical evidence in support of this heuristic. 
Analysis of MRI time-series revisited|
A p + 1 method of factoring,|
Numerical sieving devices: Their history and some applications,|
On numbers analogous to the Carmichael numbers|
Computation of real quadratic fields with class number one,|
Computation of the solution of x 3 +Dy 3 =1|
Simple groups of square order and an interesting sequence of primes,|
Some remarks concerning the|
An investigation of the bounds for the regulator of quadratic fields,|
Some computational results on a problem concerning powerful numbers,|
Computation of the class number of a real quadratic field,|
Short representation of quadratic integers, Computational algebra and number theory,|
Primality testing on a computer|
Effective primality tests for some integers of the forms A5 n\Gamma 1 and A7 n \Gamma 1|
Some primes with interesting digit patterns|
The primality of R1031|
Some algorithms for solving a cubic congruence modulo p|
Class numbers of real quadratic fields, continued fractions, reduced ideals, prime-producing quadratic polynomials, and quadratic residue covers,|
A numerical investigation of the Diophantine equation x 2\Gamma dy 2 = \Gamma 1,|
Some computational results on a problem of Eisenstein,|
Quadratic polynomials which have a high density of prime values,|
Quadratic fields and cryptography,"|
How was F6 factored?,|
Some algorithms for prime testing using generalizedLehmer functions,|
On measures of deprivation and the spatial allocation of resources for primary health care ,|
A numerical investigation into the length of the period of the continued fraction expansion of p D,|
Classification and enumeration of real quadratic fields having exactly one non-inert prime less than a Minkowski bound,|
Travel demand models, duality relations and user benefit analysis,"|
Accessibility, spatial interaction and the spatial benefit analysis of land use-transportation plans,"|
On the existence of a short proof for the value of the class number and regulator of a real quadratic field|
