Workshop on Statistical Relational Learning and its Connections to Other Fields Workshop Co-chairs| Preface This workshop is the third in a series of workshops held in conjunction with AAAI and IJCAI.  The first workshop was held in July, 2000 at AAAI.  Notes from that workshop are available at http://robotics. stanford. edu/srl/.  The second workshop was held in July, 2003 at IJCAI.  Notes from that workshop are available at http://kdl. cs. umass. edu/srl2003/ There has been a surge of interest in this area.  The efforts have been diffused across a wide collection of sub-areas in computer science including machine learning, database management, and theoretical computer science.  The goal of this year's workshop is to reach out to related fields that have not participated in previous workshops.  Specifically, we seek to invite researchers in computer vision, spatial statistics, social network analysis, language modeling, and probabilistic inference to attend the workshop and give tutorials on the relational learning problems and techniques developed in their fields.  These fields have many years of experience in particular kinds of relational learning, and we hope that bringing these diverse communities together, we can all achieve a better understanding of the range of problems and methods that can be brought to bear on relational learning problems.  We'd like to give a big THANK YOU to the program committee.  Looking forward to a lively and productive workshop in Banff. 
The Learning Curve Method Applied to Clustering| Abstract We describe novel fast learning curve methods | methods for scaling inductive methods to large data sets { and their application to clustering.  We describe the decision theoretic underpinnings of the approach and demonstrate significant performance gains on two real-world data sets. 
Efficient Determination of Dynamic Split Points in a Decision Tree| Abstract We consider the problem of choosing split points for continuous predictor variables in a decision tree.  Previous approaches to this problem typically either (1) discretize the continuous predictor values prior to learning or (2) apply a dynamic method that considers all possible split points for each potential split.  In this paper, we describe a number of alternative approaches that generate a small number of candidate split points dynamically with little overhead.  We argue that these approaches are preferable to pre-discretization, and provide experimental evidence that they yield probabilistic decision trees with the same prediction accuracy as the traditional dynamic approach.  Furthermore, because the time to grow a decision tree is proportional to the number of split points evaluated, our approach is significantly faster than the traditional dynamic approach. 
MUSART: Music Retrieval Via Aural Queries| ABSTRACT MUSART is a research project developing and studying new techniques for music information retrieval.  The MUSART architecture uses a variety of representations to support multiple search modes.  Progress is reported on the use of Markov modeling, melodic contour, and phonetic streams for music retrieval.  To enable large-scale databases and more advanced searches, musical abstraction is studied.  The MME subsystem performs theme extraction, and two other analysis systems are described that discover structure in audio representations of music.  Theme extraction and structure analysis promise to improve search quality and support better browsing and "audio thumbnailing. " Integration of these components within a single architecture will enable scientific comparison of different techniques and, ultimately, their use in combination for improved performance and functionality. 
The MUSART Testbed for Query-By-Humming Evaluation| Abstract Evaluating music information retrieval systems is acknowledged to be a difficult problem.  We have created a database and a software testbed for the systematic evaluation of various query-by-humming (QBH) search systems.  As might be expected, different queries and different databases lead to wide variations in observed search precision.  "Natural" queries from two sources led to lower performance than that typically reported in the QBH literature.  These results point out the importance of careful measurement and objective comparisons to study retrieval algorithms.  This study compares search algorithms based on note-interval matching with dynamic programming, fixed-frame melodic contour matching with dynamic time warping, and a hidden Markov model.  An examination of scaling trends is encouraging: precision falls off very slowly as the database size increases.  This trend is simple to compute and could be useful to predict performance on larger databases. 
Large-Sample Learning of Bayesian Networks is NP-Hard| Abstract In this paper, we provide new complexity results for algorithms that learn discrete-variable Bayesian networks from data.  Our results apply whenever the learning algorithm uses a scoring criterion that favors the simplest structure for which the model is able to represent the generative distribution exactly.  Our results therefore hold whenever the learning algorithm uses a consistent scoring criterion and is applied to a sufficiently large dataset.  We show that identifying high-scoring structures is NPhard, even when any combination of one or more of the following hold: the generative distribution is perfect with respect to some DAG containing hidden variables; we are given an independence oracle; we are given an inference oracle; we are given an information oracle; we restrict potential solutions to structures in which each node has at most k parents, for all k # 3.  Our proof relies on a new technical result that we establish in the appendices.  In particular, we provide a method for constructing the local distributions in a Bayesian network such that the resulting joint distribution is provably perfect with respect to the structure of the network. 
Using D-separation to Calculate Zero Partial Correlations in Linear Models with Correlated Errors| Abstract It has been shown in Spirtes(1995) that X and Y are d-separated given Z in a directed graph associated with a recursive or non-recursive linear model without correlated errors if and only if the model entails that r XY. Z = 0.  This result cannot be directly applied to a linear model with correlated errors, however, because the standard graphical representation of a linear model with correlated errors is not a directed graph.  The main result of this paper is to show how to associate a directed graph with a linear model L with correlated errors, and then use d-separation in the associated directed graph to determine whether L entails that a particular partial correlation is zero.  In a linear structural equation model (SEM) some partial correlations may be equal to zero for all values of the model's free parameters (for which the partial correlation is defined).  (When we refer to "all values" of the free parameters, we assume that there are no constraints upon the models parameters except for the coefficients and the correlations among the error variables that are fixed at zero. ) In this case we will say that the SEM linearly entails that the partial correlation is zero.  It has been shown in Spirtes(1995) that X and Y are d-separated given Z in a directed graph associated with a recursive or nonrecursive linear model with uncorrelated errors if and only if the model linearly entails that r XY. Z = 0.  This result cannot be directly applied to a linear model with correlated errors, however, because the standard graphical representation of a linear model with correlated errors is not a directed graph.  The main result of this paper is to show how to associate a directed graph with a linear model L with correlated errors, and then use d-separation in the associated directed graph to determine whether L linearly entails that a particular partial correlation is zero.  The standard graph terminology in this paper, the standard terminology for linear structural equation models, and the relationship between the two terminologies are described in the Appendix.  If G is the graph of SEM L with correlated errors, let Transform(G) be the graph resulting from replacing a double headed arrow between correlated errors e i and e j with a new latent variable T ij (i < j) and edges from T ij to X i and X j , and then removing the error terms from the graph.  See Figure 1.  A trek between X i and X j is an undirected path between X i and X j that contains no colliders.  If there is a trek X i T ij X j in Transform(G), we will say that X i and X j are d-adjacent in Transform(G).  A trek X j T ij X i is called a correlated error trek in Transform(G).  In Transform(G), a correlated error trek sequence is a sequence of vertices <X i , .  . . , X k } such that no pair of vertices adjacent in the sequence are identical, and for each pair of vertices X r and X s adjacent in the sequence, there is a correlated error trek between X r and X s .  For example in Figure 1, the sequence of vertices <
Model-Based Clustering and Visualization of Navigation Patterns on a Web Site| Abstract We present a new methodology for exploring and analyzing navigation patterns on a web site.  The patterns that can be analyzed consist of sequences of URL categories traversed by users.  In our approach, we first partition site users into clusters such that users with similar navigation paths through the site are placed into the same cluster.  Then, for each cluster, we display these paths for users within that cluster.  The clustering approachweemploy is model-based (as opposed to distance-based) and partitions users according to the order in which they request web pages.  In particular, we cluster users by learning a mixture of first-order Markov models using the Expectation-Maximization algorithm.  The runtime of our algorithm scales linearly with the number of clusters and with the size of the data; and our implementation easily handles hundreds of thousands of user sessions in memory.  In the paper, we describe the details of our method and a visualization tool based on it called WebCANVAS.  We illustrate the use of our approach on user-traffic data from msnbc. com. 
Finding Optimal Bayesian Networks| Abstract In this paper, we derive optimality results for greedy Bayesian-network search algorithms that perform single-edge modifications at each step and use asymptotically consistent scoring criteria.  Our results extend those of Meek (1997) and Chickering (2002), who demonstrate that in the limit of large datasets, if the generative distribution is perfect with respect to a DAG defined over the observable variables, such search algorithms will identify this optimal (i. e.  generatve) DAG model.  We relax their assumption about the generative distribtion, and assume only that this distribution satisfies the composition property over the observable variables, which is a more realistic assumption for real domains.  Under this assumption, we guarantee that the search algorithms identify an inclusion-optimal model; that is, a model that (1) contains the generative distribution and (2) has no sub-model that contains this distribution.  In addition, we show that the composition property is guaranteed to hold whenever the dependence relationships in the generative distribution can be characterized by paths between singleton elements in some generative graphical model (e. g.  a DAG, a chain graph, or a Markovnetwork) even when we allow the generative model to include unobserved variables, and the observed data to be subject to selection bias. 
Staged Mixture Modeling and Boosting| In this paper, we introduce and evaluate a data-driven staged mixture modeling technique for building density, regression, and classi#cation models.  Our basic approach is to sequentially add components to a finite mixture model using the structural expectation maximization (SEM) algorithm.  We show that our technique is qualitatively similar to boosting.  This correspondence is a natural byproduct of the fact that we use the SEM algorithm to sequentially fit the mixture model.  Finally, in our experimental evaluation, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on a variety of prediction and density estimation tasks using real-world data. 
Identifying Similarities, Periodicities and Bursts for Online Search Queries| ABSTRACT We present several methods for mining knowledge from the query logs of the MSN search engine.  Using the query logs, we build a time series for each query word or phrase (e. g. , `Thanksgiving' or `Christmas gifts') where the elements of the time series are the number of times that a query is issued on a day.  All of the methods we describe use sequences of this form and can be applied to time series data generally.  Our primary goal is the discovery of semantically similar queries and we do so by identifying queries with similar demand patterns.  Utilizing the best Fourier coe*cients and the energy of the omitted components, we improve upon the state-of-the-art in time-series similarity matching.  The extracted sequence features are then organized in an e*cient metric tree index structure.  We also demonstrate how to efficiently and accurately discover the important periods in a time-series.  Finally we propose a simple but e-ective method for identification of bursts (long or short-term).  Using the burst information extracted from a sequence, we are able to e*ciently perform 'query-by-burst' on the database of timeseries.  We conclude the presentation with the description of a tool that uses the described methods, and serves as an interactive exploratory data discovery tool for the MSN query database. 
OASIS: An Online and Accurate Technique for Local-alignment Searches on Biological Sequences| Abstract A common query against large protein and gene sequence data sets is to locate targets that are similar to an input query sequence.  The current set of popular search tools, such as BLAST, employ heuristics to improve the speed of such searches.  However, such heuristics can sometimes miss targets, which in many cases is undesirable.  The alternative to BLAST is to use an accurate algorithm, such as the Smith-Waterman (S-W) algorithm.  However, these accurate algorithms are computationally very expensive, which limits their use in practice.  This paper takes on the challenge of designing an accurate and efficient algorithm for evaluating local-alignment searches.  To meet this goal, we propose a novel search algorithm, called OASIS.  This algorithm employs a dynamic programming A*-search driven by a suffix-tree index that is built on the input data set.  We experimentally evaluate OASIS and demonstrate that for an important class of searches, in which the query sequence lengths are small, OASIS is more than an order of magnitude faster than S-W.  In addition, the speed of OASIS is comparable to BLAST.  Furthermore, OASIS returns results in decreasing order of the matching score, making it possible to use OASIS in an online setting.  Consequently, we believe that it may now be practically feasible to query large biological sequence data sets using an accurate local-alignment search algorithm. 
Dynamics of the mesosphere and lower thermosphere as seen by MF radars and by the high-resolution Doppler imager/UARS| Abstract.  This paper presents comparisons between wind measurements in the mesosphere and lower thermosphere by medium-frequency (MF) radars and by the high-resolution Doppler imager onboard the Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite (UARS).  Because of distinctive observational patterns, time and space averaging, and data processing algorithms, satellites and radars observe the atmosphere from their own perspectives.  Because thermal tides are an important part of dynamics in these regions of the atmosphere, tidal determinations from both techniques were given particular attention.  Differences and similarities of the two methods are discussed and analyzed. 
Technical Report: Johnny Can't Sing: a Comprehensive Trainable Error Model for Sung Music Queries| Abstract We propose a model for errors in sung queries, a variant of the hidden Markov model (HMM).  This is a solution to the problem of identifying the degree of similarity between a (typically error-laden) sung query and a potential target in a database of musical works, an important problem in the field of music information retrieval.  Similarity metrics are a critical component of "query-by-humming" (QBH) applications which search audio and multimedia databases for strong matches to aural queries.  Our model comprehensively expresses the types of error or variation between target and query: cumulative and non-cumulative local errors, transposition, tempo and tempo changes, insertions, deletions and modulation.  The model is not only expressive, but automatically trainable, or able to learn and generalize from query examples.  We present results of simulations, designed to assess the discriminatory potential of the model, and tests with real sung queries, to demonstrate relevance to real-world applications. 
Perfect Markov Trees| Summary We show that if a strictly positive joint probability distribution for a set of binary random variables factors according to a tree, then vertex separation represents all and only the independence relations encoded in the distribution.  The same result is shown to hold also for multivariate strictly positive normal distributions.  Our proof uses a new conditional independence property that holds for these two classes of probability distributions. 
Research Note Finding a Path is Harder than Finding a Tree| Abstract I consider the problem of learning an optimal path graphical model from data and show the problem to be NP-hard for the maximum likelihood and minimum description length approaches and a Bayesian approach.  This hardness result holds despite the fact that the problem is a restriction of the polynomially solvable problem of finding the optimal tree graphical model. 
On the Toric Algebra of Graphical Models| February 2002 Technical Report MSR-TR-2002-47 We formulate necessary and sucient conditions for an arbitrary discrete probability distribution to factor according to an undirected graphical model, or a log-linear model, or other more general exponential models.  This characterization generalizes the well-known Hammersley-Cli#ord Theorem.  We show that for decomposable graphical models these conditions are equivalent to a set of statistical independence facts as in the Hammersley-Cli#ord Theorem but that for non-decomposable graphical models they are not.  We also show that non-decomposable models can have non-rational maximum likelihood estimates.  Finally, using these results, we provide a characterization of decomposable graphical models. 
A Comprehensive Trainable Error Model for Sung Music Queries| Abstract We propose a model for errors in sung queries, a variant of the hidden Markov model (HMM).  This is a solution to the problem of identifying the degree of similarity between a (typically error-laden) sung query and a potential target in a database of musical works, an important problem in the field of music information retrieval.  Similarity metrics are a critical component of "query-by-humming" (QBH) applications which search audio and multimedia databases for strong matches to oral queries.  Our model comprehensively expresses the types of error or variation between target and query: cumulative and noncumulative local errors, transposition, tempo and tempo changes, insertions, deletions and modulation.  The model is not only expressive, but automatically trainable, or able to learn and generalize from query examples.  We present results of simulations, designed to assess the discriminatory potential of the model, and tests with real sung queries, to demonstrate relevance to real-world applications. 
Visualization of navigation patterns on a Web site using model-based clustering| ABSTRACT We present a new methodology for visualizing navigation patterns on a Web site.  In our approach, we first partition site users into clusters such that only users with similar navigation paths through the site are placed into the same cluster.  Then, for each cluster, we display these paths for users within that cluster.  The clustering approachwe employ is model based (as opposed to distance based) and partitions users according to the order in which they request Web pages.  In particular, we cluster users by learning a mixture of first-order Markov models using the ExpectationMaximization algorithm.  Our algorithm scales linearly with both number of users and number of clusters, and our implementation easily handles millions of users and thousands of clusters in memory.  In the paper, we describe the details of our technology and a tool based on it called WebCANVAS.  We illustrate the use of our technology on user-trac data from msnbc. com. 
Discriminative Model Selection for Density Models| Abstract Density mode s are a popu ar too for bui ding c assifiers.  When using density mode s to bui d a c assifier, one typica y earns a separate density mode for each c ass of interest.  These density mode s are then combined to make a c assifier through the use of Bayes' ru e uti izing the prior distribution over the c asses.  In this paper, we provide a discriminative method for choosing among a ternative density mode s for each c ass to improve c assification accuracy. 
CFW: A Collaborative Filtering System Using Posteriors over Weights of Evidence| Abstract We describe CFW, a computationally ecient algorithm for collaborative filtering that uses posteriors over weights of evidence.  In experiments on real data, we show that this method predicts as well or better than other methods in situations where the size of the user query is small.  The new approach works particularly well when the user's query contains low frequency (unpopular) items.  The approach complements that of dependency networks which perform well when the size of the query is large.  Also in this paper, we argue that the use of posteriors over weights of evidence is a natural way to recommend similar items---a task that is somewhat dierent from the usual collaborative-filtering task. 
Targeted Internet Advertising Using Predictive Clustering and Linear Programming| Abstract Many Internet sites have the freedom to choose which advertisements go on which page, subject to the constraint that all paid-for ads must be shown.  To increase revenue, these sites can choose ads so as to maximize click-through rates.  We present a two-step system that does so.  In step one, the system applies predictive clustering to the pages so that the clusters are good predictors of ad click-through.  This predictive clustering is accomplished by GEM applied to a regularized log loss on click-through prediction.  In step two, the system measures click-through rates of each cluster, and then uses a linear program to optimize overall click-through rate on the site.  Using data from the msnbc. com Internet site, we show that this approach increases overall click-through rate by 38%, a dramatic improvement over the use of hand-assigned clusters. 
Dependency Networks for Inference, Collaborative Filtering, and Data Visualization|
A Bayesian approach to causal discovery|
Model-based clustering and visualisation of navigation patterns on a web site,|
Challenges of the Email Domain for Text Classification|
Computationally efficient methods for selecting among mixtures of graphical models, with discussion|
Learning mixtures of Bayesian networks|
Visualization of navigation patterns on web site using model based clustering|
Asymptotic Model Selection for Directed Networks with Hidden Variables|
Structure and Parameter Learning for Causal Independence and Causal Interaction Models|
An evaluation of machine-learning methods for predicting pneumonia mortality|
Embedded bayesian network classifiers|
Models and Selection Criteria for Regression and Classification|
Global partial orders from sequential data|
Causal inference and causal explanation with background knowledge|
An algorithm for causal inference in the presence of latent variables and selection bias,|
Learning Mixtures of DAG Models|
Accelerating EM for Large Databases|
Graphical Models: Selecting causal and statistical models|
Finding a Path is Harder than Finding a Tree|
Dependency Networks for Collaborative Filtering and Data Visualization|
Causal Inference in the Presence of Latent Variables and Selection Bias|
Using path diagrams as a structural equation modelling tool|
Stratified exponential families: graphical models and model selection|
Learning Bayesian Networks with Discrete Variables from Data|
Thematic extractor|
Dependency networks for density estimation, collaborative filtering, and data visualization|
Probabilistic models for relational data|
Climatology of the semidiurnal tide at 52N-56N from ground-based radar wind measurements 1985-|
Climatologies of semi-diurnal and diurnal tides in the middle atmosphere (70-110 km) at middle latitudes (40-55)|
Seasonal variations of the semi-diurnal and diurnal tides in the MLT: multi-year MF radar observations from 2 to 70N, and the GSWM tidal model,|
Variations of mean winds and solar tides in the mesosphere and lower thermosphere over scales ranging from 6 months to 11a| Saskatoon 52N, 107W,. 
OASIS:|
1997] A Bayesian Approach To Causal Discovery,|
Strong completeness and faithfulness in Bayesian networks|
Description and presentation of reference atmosphere radar winds (80--110)|
Climatological monthly characteristics of middle atmosphere gravitywaves (10 min--10 hr) during 1979--1993 at Saskatoon|
Learning mixtures of Bayes networks|
Conditioning and Intervening",|
Autoregressive Tree Models for Time-Series Analysis|
The learning-curve method applied to model-based clustering|
"Learning mixtures of Bayesian networks,"|
Information Theory",|
Strong Completeness and Faithfulnes in Bayesian Networks",|
The Learning-Curve Sampling Method Applied to Model-Based Clustering|
The TETRAD project: Constraint based aids to causal model specification|
Heuristic greedy search algorithms for latent variable models,|
Johnny Can't Sing|
HMM-based musical query retrieval|
The MusArt Music-Retrieval System: An Overview|
Probabilistic Entity-Relationship Models, PRMs, and Plate Models,|
Comparative study of interannual changes of the mean winds and gravity wave activity in the middle atmosphere over Japan, Central Europe and Canada|
A long-term comparison of Saskatoon MF radar and Collm LF D1 mesosphere-lower thermosphere wind measurements|
Mesopause dynamics from the Scandinavian triangle of radars within the PSMOS-DATAR Project|
High-latitude mesospheric mean winds: A comparison between Troms(69|
On the response of fading times of upper homosphere radar echoes to solar and geomagnetic disturbances|
Gravity wave spectra and direction statistics for the mesosphere as observed by MF radars in the Canadian prairies (49N-52|
Characteristics of gravity waves (10min-6h) at Saskatoon (52N, 107W): Observations by the phase coherent medium frequency radar|
Comp tationally eFcient methods for selecting among mixt res of graphical models, with disc ssion|
The musart query-retrieval system|
Prediction and Experimental Design with Graphical Model,"|
Seasonal variations of the semi-diurnal and diurnal tides in the MLT: multi-year MF radar observations from 2-70N, modelled tides (GSWM, CMAM),|
Variability of the quasi-2-day wave observed in the MLT region during the PSMOS campaign of June--|
"Managing a Personal Music Library|
Variations of the gravity wave characteristics with height, season and latitude revealed by comparative observations|
Stratified Exponential Families:|
Comparing aural music information retrieval systems|
Accelerating em for large databases|
Causal inference and causal explanation with background,|
The dimensionality of mixed ancestral graphs|
Tetrad II: Tools for Causal Modeling (with software)|
E region real heights and their implications for MF radarderived wind and tidal climatologies,|
A long-term comparison of middle atmosphere winds measured at Saskatoon (52 ffi N, 107 ffi W) by a mediumfrequency radar and a Fabry-Perot interferometer,|
Comparison of mean wind and tidal fields at Saskatoon (52 ffi N, 107 ffi W) and Poker Flat (65 ffi N, 147 ffi|
Wind oscillations (6h-6 days) in the upper middle atmosphere at Monpazier (France, 45 ffi N, 1 ffi E) and Saskatoon (Canada, 52 ffi N, 107 ffi|
Global study of northern hemisphere quasi-2-daywave events in recent summers near altitude|
Quantifier Elimination for Statistical Problems|
