Protein backbone angle prediction with machine learning approaches| ABSTRACT Motivation: Protein backbone torsion angle prediction provides useful local structural information that goes beyond conventional three-state (#, # and coil) secondary structure predictions.  Accurate prediction of protein backbone torsion angles will substantially improve modeling procedures for local structures of protein sequence segments, especially in modeling loop conformations that do not form regular structures as in #-helices or #-strands.  Results: We have devised two novel automated methods in protein backbone conformational state prediction: one method is based on support vector machines (SVMs); the other method combines a standard feed-forward back-propagation artificial neural network (NN) with a local structure-based sequence profile database (LSBSP1).  Extensive benchmark experiments demonstrate that both methods have improved the prediction accuracy rate over the previously published methods for conformation state prediction when using an alphabet of three or four states.  Availability: LSBSP1 and the NN algorithm have been implemented in PrISM. 1, which is available from www. columbia.  edu/~ay1/.  Contact: ay1@columbia. edu; cleslie@cs. cloumbia. edu Supplementary information: Supplementary data for the SVM method can be downloaded from the Website www. cs.  columbia. edu/compbio/backbone. 
Fast Kernels for Inexact String Matching| Abstract.  We introduce several new families of string kernels designed in particular for use with support vector machines (SVMs) for classification of protein sequence data.  These kernels -- restricted gappy kernels, substitution kernels, and wildcard kernels -- are based on feature spaces indexed by k-length subsequences from the string alphabet # (or the alphabet augmented by a wildcard character), and hence they are related to the recently presented (k, m)-mismatch kernel and string kernels used in text classification.  However, for all kernels we define here, the kernel value K(x, y) can be computed in O(cK (|x | + |y |)) time, where the constant cK depends on the parameters of the kernel but is independent of the size |#| of the alphabet.  Thus the computation of these kernels is linear in the length of the sequences, like the mismatch kernel, but we improve upon the parameterdependent constant cK = k m+1 |#| m of the mismatch kernel.  We compute the kernels efficiently using a recursive function based on a trie data structure and relate our new kernels to the recently described transducer formalism.  Finally, we report protein classification experiments on a benchmark SCOP dataset, where we show that our new faster kernels achieve SVM classification performance comparable to the mismatch kernel and the Fisher kernel derived from profile hidden Markov models. 
Semi-supervised Protein Classification Using Cluster Kernels| Abstract A key issue in supervised protein classification is the representation of input sequences of amino acids.  Recent work using string kernels for protein data has achieved state-of-the-art classification performance.  However, such representations are based only on labeled data --- examples with known 3D structures, organized into structural classes --- while in practice, unlabeled data is far more plentiful.  In this work, we develop simple and scalable cluster kernel techniques for incorporating unlabeled data into the representation of protein sequences.  We show that our methods greatly improve the classification performance of string kernels and outperform standard approaches for using unlabeled data, such as adding close homologs of the positive examples to the training data.  We achieve equal or superior performance to previously presented cluster kernel methods while achieving far greater computational efficiency. 
Mismatch string kernels for discriminative protein classification| Abstract We introduce a class of string kernels, called mismatch kernels, for use with support vector machines (SVMs) in a discriminative approach to the protein classification problem.  These kernels measure sequence similarity based on shared occurrences of k-length subsequences, counted with up to m mismatches, and do not rely on any generative model for the positive training sequences.  We compute the kernels efficiently using a mismatch tree data structure and report experiments on a benchmark SCOP dataset, where we show that the mismatch kernel used with an SVM classifier performs as well as the Fisher kernel, the most successful method for remote homology detection, while achieving considerable computational savings. 
A Spatio-Temporal Data Model for Analyzing the Relationship between Property Ownership Changes, Land-Use/Land-Cover and Carbon Dynamics| ABSTRACT Since 1980 there has been an increasing interest, both commercially and academically, in the development of spatio-temporal data models.  Such data models are designed not only to facilitate information extraction about data objects and the relationships between these objects but also to support the analysis of data in a time series from varying perspectives.  We will design a spatio-temporal data model for a NASA-funded research project.  This project investigates how land ownership practices and land-use/land-cover, influence changes in carbon storage dynamics in forested ecosystems in the southeastern United States.  The design of such a model will determine to what extent ownership changes have affected land-use/land-cover and whether these changes have in turn influenced carbon dynamics over the past 25 years. 
Dealing with Large Diagonals in Kernel Matrices| Abstract In kernel methods, all the information about the training data is contained in the Gram matrix.  If this matrix has large diagonal values, which arises for many types of kernels, then kernel methods do not perform well.  We propose and test several methods for dealing with this problem by reducing the dynamic range of the matrix while preserving the positive definiteness of the Hessian of the quadratic programming problem that one has to solve when training a Support Vector Machine, which is a common kernel approach for pattern recognition. 
Fast String Kernels using Inexact Matching for Protein Sequences| Abstract We describe several families of k-mer based string kernels related to the recently presented mismatch kernel and designed for use with support vector machines (SVMs) for classification of protein sequence data.  These new kernels -- restricted gappy kernels, substitution kernels, and wildcard kernels -- are based on feature spaces indexed by k-length subsequences ("k-mers") from the string alphabet S.  However, for all kernels we define here, the kernel value K(x,y) can be computed in O(c K (|x| +
The Spectrum Kernel: A String Kernel for SVM Protein Classification|
Sequence information for the splicing of human pre-mRNA identified by support vector machine classification|
"A picture of male ad female unemployment among Britain's ethic minorities",|
Dealing with Large Diagonals in Kernel Matrices,|
The risk of collisions between ships and bridges|
Cluster kernels for semi-supervised protein classification|
Is Vitrification Sufficient to Preserve Liposomes during Freeze-Drying?|
