Persistence and accommodation in short-term priming and other perceptual paradigms: temporal segregation through synaptic depression| Abstract Perceptual input changes constantly in an unpredictable fashion, often changing before our somewhat sluggish perceptual systems have adequately processed this input.  This can give rise to source confusion---how do we know whether a given perceptual activation is due to the current input, or a previous input that had yet to be completely processed? We propose that activity-dependent neural accommodation naturally limits this source confusion by suppressing items once they have been identified.  We review behavioral paradigms from different literatures that measure the correlates of persistence and accommodation.  Of the various accommodative mechanisms, we focus on synaptic depression, deriving a rate-coded expression that can be used to produce accommodating dynamics in any neural network with real valued activation.  We implement this expression in a hierarchical model of perception termed, "a neural mechanism for responding optimally with unknown sources of evidence" (nROUSE).  This model can be viewed as a more detailed version of the more abstract ROUSE model of Huber, Shiffrin, Lyle, and Ruys (2001), which produces accommodated levels of feature evidence through an optimal calculation.  We apply nROUSE to three short-term priming experiments that manipulated prime duration. 
Charge sign dependence of cosmic ray modulation near a rigidity of 1 GV| Abstract.  New observations of electron fluxes made in 1997 and 1998 extend our ongoing investigation of the relative modulation of positively and negatively charged particles.  We compare electron fluxes measured on high-altitude balloon flights with continuing observations of helium fluxes from the IMP 8 spacecraft and present new measurements of the primary cosmic ray positron abundance in 1997 and 1998.  Electron fluxes during the 1984--1990 period show a flat topped distribution, whereas the positively charged He fluxes show a peaked distribution, with the peak in 1987.  This is expected from modulation theory, including the role of drifts when the northern heliospheric magnetic field is inward, and the southern heliospheric field is outward.  From 1990 to 1999, data are consistent with an inverse relationship, but electron data are too sparse to allow a definitive statement.  Near a rigidity of 1 GV the relative abundance of electrons and helium nuclei is a weak function of the tilt angle of the heliospheric current sheet. 
A Rational Analysis of Cognitive Control in a Speeded Discrimination Task| Abstract We are interested in the mechanisms by which individuals monitor and adjust their performance of simple cognitive tasks.  We model a speeded discrimination task in which individuals are asked to classify a sequence of stimuli (Jones & Braver, 2001).  Response conflict arises when one stimulus class is infrequent relative to another, resulting in more errors and slower reaction times for the infrequent class.  How do control processes modulate behavior based on the relative class frequencies? We explain performance from a rational perspective that casts the goal of individuals as minimizing a cost that depends both on error rate and reaction time.  With two additional assumptions of rationality---that class prior probabilities are accurately estimated and that inference is optimal subject to limitations on rate of information transmission---we obtain a good fit to overall RT and error data, as well as trial-by-trial variations in performance.  Consider the following scenario: While driving, you approach an intersection at which the traffic light has already turned yellow, signaling that it is about to turn red.  You also notice that a car is approaching you rapidly from behind, with no indication of slowing.  Should you stop or speed through the intersection? The decision is difficult due to the presence of two conflicting signals.  Such response conflict can be produced in a psychological laboratory as well.  For example, Stroop (1935) asked individuals to name the color of ink on which a word is printed.  When the words are color names incongruous with the ink color--e. g. , "blue" printed in red---reaction times are slower and error rates are higher.  We are interested in the control mechanisms underlying performance of high-conflict tasks.  Conflict requires individuals to monitor and adjust their behavior, possibly responding more slowly if errors are too frequent.  In this paper, we model a speeded discrimination paradigm in which individuals are asked to classify a sequence of stimuli (Jones & Braver, 2001).  The stimuli are letters of the alphabet, A--Z, presented in rapid succession.  In a choice task, individuals are asked to press one response key if the letter is an X or another response key for any letter other than X (as a shorthand, we will refer to non-X stimuli as Y).  In a go/no-go task, individuals are asked to press a response key when X is presented and to make no response otherwise.  We address both tasks because they elicit slightly different decision-making behavior.  In both tasks, Jones and Braver (2001) manipulated the relative frequency of the X and Y stimuli; the ratio of presentation frequency was either 17:83, 50:50, or 83:17.  Response conflict arises when the two stimulus classes are unbalanced in frequency, resulting in more errors and slower reaction times.  For example, when X's are frequent but Y is presented, individuals are predisposed toward producing the X response, and this predisposition must be overcome by the perceptual evidence from the Y.  Jones and Braver (2001) also performed an fMRI study of this task and found that anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) becomes activated in situations involving response conflict.  Specifically, when one stimulus occurs infrequently relative to the other, event-related fMRI response in the ACC is greater for the low frequency stimulus.  Jones and Braver also extended a neural network model of Botvinick, Braver, Barch, Carter, and Cohen (2001) to account for human performance in the two discrimination tasks.  The heart of the model is a mechanism that monitors conflict---the posited role of the ACC---and adjusts response biases accordingly.  In this paper, we develop a parsimonious alternative account of the role of the ACC and of how control processes modulate behavior when response conflict arises.  1 A RATIONAL ANALYSIS Our account is based on a rational analysis of human cognition, which views cognitive processes as being optimized with respect to certain task-related goals, and being adaptive to the structure of the environment (Anderson, 1990).  We make three assumptions of rationality: (1) perceptual inference is optimal but is subject to rate limitations on information transmission, (2) response class prior probabilities are accurately estimated, and (3) the goal of individuals is to minimize a cost that depends both on error rate and reaction time.  The heart of our account is an existing probabilistic model that explains a variety of facilitation effects that arise from long-term repetition priming (Colagrosso, in preparation; Mozer, Colagrosso, & Huber, 2000), and more broadly, that addresses changes in the nature of information transmission in neocortex due to experience.  We give a brief overview of this model; the details are not essential for the present work.  The model posits that neocortex can be characterized by a collection of informationprocessing pathways, and any act of cognition involves coordination among pathways.  To model a simple discrimination task, we might suppose a perceptual pathway to map the visual input to a semantic representation, and a response pathway to map the semantic representation to a response.  The choice and go/no-go tasks described earlier share a perceptual pathway, but require different response pathways.  The model is framed in terms of probability theory: pathway inputs and outputs are random variables and microinference in a pathway is carried out by Bayesian belief revision.  To elaborate, consider a pathway whose input at time t is a discrete random variable, denoted X(t), which can assume values 1; 2; 3; : : : n x corresponding to alternative input states.  Similarly, the output of the pathway at time t is a discrete random variable, denoted Y (t), which can assume values 1; 2; 3; : : : n y .  For example, the input to the perceptual pathway in the discrimination task is one of n x = 26 visual patterns corresponding to the letters of the alphabet, and the output is one of n y = 26 letter identities.  (This model is highly abstract: the visual patterns are enumerated, but the actual pixel patterns are not explicitly represented in the model.  Nonetheless, the similarity structure among inputs can be captured, but we skip a discussion of this issue because it is irrelevant for the current work. ) To present a particular input alternative, i, to the model for T time steps, we clamp X(t) = i for t = 1 : : : T .  The model computes a probability distribution over Y given X , i. e. , P(Y (t) j X(1) : : : X(t)). 
Mechanisms of long-term repetition priming and skill refinement: A probabilistic pathway model| Abstract We address an omnipresent and pervasive form of
Recognizing and Interpreting Gestures on a Mobile Robot| Abstract Gesture recognition is an important skill for robots that work closely with humans.  Gestures help to clarify spoken commands and are a compact means of relaying geometric information.  We have developed a real-time, three-dimensional gesture recognition system that resides on-board a mobile robot.  Using a coarse three-dimensional model of a human to guide stereo measurements of body parts, the system is capable of recognizing six distinct gestures made by an unadorned human in an unaltered environment.  An active vision approach focuses the vision system's attention on small, moving areas of space to allow for frame rate processing even when the person and/or the robot are moving.  This paper describes the gesture recognition system, including the coarse model and the active vision approach.  This paper also describes how the gesture recognition system is integrated with an intelligent control architecture to allow for complex gesture interpretation and complex robot action.  Results from experiments with an actual mobile robot are given. 
FRAGMENTATION IN KINEMATICALLY COLD DISKS| Abstract Gravity is scale free.  Thus gravity may form similar structures in self-gravitating systems on different scales.  Indeed, observations of the interstellar medium, spiral disks and cosmic structures, reveal similar characteristics.  The structures in these systems are very lumpy and inhomogeneous.  Moreover some of these structures do not seem to be of random nature, but obey certain power laws.  Models of slightly dissipative self-gravitating disks show how such inhomogeneous structures can be maintained on the kpc-scale.  The basic physical processes in these models are self-gravity, dissipation and differential rotation.  In order to explore the structures resulting from these processes, local simulations of self-gravitating disks are performed in 2D and 3D.  We observe persistent patterns, formed by transient structures, whose intensity and morphological characteristic depend on the dissipation rate. 
Inertially Assisted Stereo Tracking for an Outdoor Rover| Abstract Ego-motion (self-motion) of the cameraisaconsiderable problem in outdoor rover applications.  Stereo tracking of a single moving target is a dicult problem that becomes even more challenging when rough terrain causes significant and high-acceleration motion of the camera in the world.  This paper discusses the use of inertial measurements to estimate camera ego-motion and the use of these estimates to augment stereotracking.  Some initial results from an outdoor rover will be presented, illustrating the ecacy of the method.  The method causes fast but predictable image location transients, but reduces the amplitude of image location transients due to the rough terrain. 
Using Stereo Vision to Pursue Moving Agents with a Mobile Robot|
Accurate Area and Delay Estimation from RTL Descriptions,|
Robonaut: A Robot Designed to Work with Humans in Space|
Clause Structure and Prosodic Segmentation,|
Integrating Active Perception with an Autonomous Robot Architecture|
Probability distributions of allophones, diphones and triphones in phonetic transcription of Swedish newspaper text|
Transient and sub-atmospheric performance of a closed-loop electroosmotic microchannel cooling system,|
SILK: An implementation of a buffer insertion ring,|
Superconducting multiplexer for arrays of transition edge sensors",|
Robonaut task learning through teleoperation|
A Nursing Management Minimum Data Set (NMMDS): A report of an invitational conference|
The Automation of an Astronaut's Humanoid Assistant|
Multi-axial electrical switching of a ferroelectric: theory versus experiment|
A constitutive model for ferroelectric polycrystals|
A Bayesian Cognitive Architecture for Interpreting Long-Term Priming Phenomena|
Cosmic electron spectra 1987--1994,|
Solar modulation of cosmic electrons,|
in The Evolution of Galaxies on Cosmological Timescales, eds|
\A statistical approach to the segmentation and broad classification into phrase-sized information units,|
High resolution refinement of b-galactosidase in a new crystal form reveals multiple metal-binding sites and provides a structural basis for a-complementation|
in preparation)| Using event-related potentials to test a biologically-based model of short-term priming. 
in preparation)| A race model of perceptual identification 1: Reaction time distributions and receiver operating characteristics. 
Mechanisms of source confusion and discounting in short-term priming 1: Effects of prime duration and prime recognition|
Mechanisms of source confusion and discounting in short-term priming 2: Effects of prime similarity and target duration|
in preparation)| Synaptic depression in short-term priming:. 
Perception and preference in short-term word priming|
in preparation)| The time course of perceptual processing for words and faces. 
submitted for publication)| A race model of perceptual forced choice reaction time. 
Parts-based 3D object classificatio,|
Dynamics of an ensemble of noisy bistable elements with global time delayed coupling,|
Modeling neocortical contributions to recognition memory|
Closed-loop electroosmotic microchannel cooling system for VLSI circuits,|
Acting in character| In Creating Personalities for Synthetic Actors,. 
Effects of category length and strength on familiarity in recognition|
