Power-law for axon diameters at branch point| Results: We pursue the hypothesis that the axon caliber has evolved to minimize signal propagation delays, while keeping arbor volume to a minimum.  For a general cost function, we show that the optimal diameters of mother and daughter branches at a bifurcation satisfy a power law.  The derivation relies on the fact that the axon conduction speed scales as a power of axon diameter.  Although available data are consistent with the law, there is a large spread in the data.  Future experimental tests will determine whether this spread is due to biological variability or measurement error. 
A wire length minimization approach to ocular dominance patterns in mammalian visual cortex| Abstract The primary visual area (V1) of the mammalian brain is a thin sheet of neurons.  Because each neuron is dominated by either right or left eye one can treat V1 as a binary mixture of neurons.  The spatial arrangement of neurons dominated by different eyes is known as the ocular dominance (OD) pattern.  We propose a theory for OD patterns based on the premise that they are evolutionary adaptations to minimize the length of intra-cortical connections.  Thus, the existing OD patterns are obtained by solving a wire length minimization problem.  We divide all the neurons into two classes: right- and left-eye dominated.  We find that if the number of connections of each neuron with the neurons of the same class differs from that with the other class, the segregation of neurons into monocular regions indeed reduces the wire length.  The shape of the regions depends on the relative number of neurons in the two classes.  If both classes are equally represented we find that the optimal OD pattern consists of alternating stripes.  If one class is less numerous than the other, the optimal OD pattern consists of patches of the underrepresented (ipsilateral) eye dominated neurons surrounded by the neurons of the other class.  We predict the transition from stripes to patches when the fraction of neurons dominated by the ipsilateral eye is about 40%.  This prediction agrees with the data in macaque and Cebus
Binocular disparity can explain the orientation of ocular dominance stripes in primate primary visual area (V1)| Abstract In the primate primary visual area (V1), the ocular dominance pattern consists of alternating monocular stripes.  Stripe orientation follows systematic trends preserved across several species. 
Optimal Sizes of Dendritic and Axonal Arbors in a Topographic Projection| Optimal sizes of dendritic and axonal arbors in a topographic projection. 
by Cell Press Viewpoint Wiring Optimization in Cortical Circuits| dritic cable attenuation and axon conduction velocity both depend on the square root of "wire" diameter. 
Wiring Optimization in the Brain|
Network motifs: Simple building blocks of complex networks|
Orientation Preference Patterns in Mammalian Visual Cortex: A Wire Length Minimization Approach|
Ocular dominance patterns in mammalian visual cortex: A wire length minimization approach|
