Submitted to Journal of the Acoustical Society of America| Comments appreciated, but do not quote without permission.  Form variation of English function words in conversation.  Abstract Function words (the, that,
Reducing errors by increasing the error rate: MLP Acoustic Modeling for Broadcast News Transcription| ABSTRACT We describe some aspects of a Broadcast News recognition system based on hybrid HMM/MLP acoustic modeling.  These include the use of novel `modulation spectrogram' features which are combined with conventional models at the posterior probability level, some experiments with nonlinear segment normalization, and an investigation of the interaction of model size and training set size for an multilayer perceptron (MLP) acoustic classifier.  We also report preliminary results of incorporating gender-dependence into this system.  1.  Background In recent years, we and our colleagues have promoted the exploration of novel, poorly understood, but promising approaches to speech recognition [2].  While such deviations from incremental improvements might initially hurt performance, the subset of the new methods that would ultimately prove useful would not be found without such explorations.  This past year, we attempted to follow this advice, while still developing a system with reasonable performance on the automatic transcription of Broadcast News speech.  An additional goal was finding approaches that would work well in combination with components developed by our SPRACH partners at Cambridge and Sheffield.  Finally, previous published results seemed to indicate that, while the hybrid HMM/connectionist approach was successful for moderate sized training corpora, it did not appear to take advantage of significant increases in the size of the corpus.  Recently improved computational capabilities at ICSI permitted tests to determine if this was true.  Given these considerations, we developed experimental Broadcast News systems that incorporated: ffl a new feature extraction module incorporating auditory characteristics in a somewhat different way than was done for Perceptual Linear Prediction (PLP) [4] or RASTA-PLP [5];
In Proceedings of ICSLP-98, Sydney REDUCTION OF ENGLISH FUNCTION WORDS IN SWITCHBOARD| ABSTRACT The causes of pronunciation reduction in 8458 occurrences of ten frequent English function words in a four-hour sample from conversations from the Switchboard corpus were examined.  Using ordinary linear and logistic regression models, we examined the length of the words, the form of their vowel (basic, full, or reduced), and final obstruent deletion.  For all of these we found strong, independent effects of speaking rate, predictability, the form of the following word, and planning problem disfluencies.  The results bear on issues in speech recognition, models of speech production, and conversational analysis. 
MULTI-LEVEL DECISION TREES FOR STATIC AND DYNAMIC PRONUNCIATION MODELS| ABSTRACT We have been focusing on improving pronunciation models for automatic transcription of television and radio news reports by modeling phone, syllable, and word pronunciation distributions with decision trees.  These models were employed in two separate sets of experiments.  First, decision trees facilitated selection of word pronunciations derived automatically from data for use in a standard speech recognizer dictionary.  We have seen a small but significant improvement with these automatically constructed dictionaries in our one-pass decoding system.  In a second set of experiments, we allowed decision tree models to determine the probability of word pronunciations dynamically, dependent on the linguistic context of the word during recognition.  Dynamic models provided an additional insignificant decrease in error, but improvements were focused within the spontaneous speech portion of the test set. 
CONTEXTUAL WORD AND SYLLABLE PRONUNCIATION MODELS| ABSTRACT This work focuses on the evaluation of models of syllable and word pronunciations constructed automatically using the Broadcast News corpus of radio and television news reports.  Previous work [4] introduced the concept of extended-length decision tree models; here I report on ASR-independent assessment of these models.  This study also discusses integration of static and dynamic pronunciation evaluation using the ROVER algorithm for combining hypotheses, and details the improvements of dynamic pronunciation evaluation on the 1998 DARPA Broadcast News test set.  The new pronunciation models improve system robustness for speech that is not pre-planned and recorded under studio conditions; these models appear to represent both linguistic variation (as in spontaneous speech) and variation due to channel effects in telephone-bandwidth speech. 
Implications of Prosody Modeling for Prosody Recognition| Abstract This paper introduces Stem-ML, which is a model of the prosody generation process with an associated description language, and suggests how it may help prosody recognition.  We applied Stem-ML modeling to three topics: the modeling of prosodic strengths, intonation types, and noun phrase patterns.  Stem-ML parameters derived from )&* contours may have a more consistent relationship with prosodic events than raw )#* values.  This may improve identification of accent classes, accent strengths, and intonation types. 
COMBINING MULTIPLE ESTIMATORS OF SPEAKING RATE| ABSTRACT We report progress in the development of a measure of speaking rate that is computed from the acoustic signal.  The newest form of our analysis incorporates multiple estimates of rate; besides the spectral moment for a full-band energy envelope that we have previously reported, we also used pointwise correlation between pairs of compressed sub-band energy envelopes.  The complete measure, called mrate, has been compared to a reference syllable rate derived from a manually transcribed subset of the Switchboard database.  The correlation with transcribed syllable rate is significantly higher than our earlier measure; estimates are typically within 1-2 syllables/second of the reference syllable rate.  We conclude by assessing the use of mrate as a detector for rapid speech. 
FORMS OF ENGLISH FUNCTION WORDS---EFFECTS OF DISFLUENCIES, TURN POSITION, AGE AND SEX, AND PREDICTABILITY| ABSTRACT This study examines the role of several non--phonetic factors in the reduction of ten frequent English function words (I, and, the, that, a , you, to, of, it, and in) in the phoneticallytranscribed portion of the Switchboard corpus of spontaneous telephone conversations.  Using ordinary linear and logistic regression models, we examined the length of the words and whether their vowels were full or reduced.  We show that function words are more likely to be longer or unreduced when they are turn--initial or utterance--final, when the speaker is female (mostly but not completely due to slower rate of speech) and when the word is surprising given the previous or following words.  Finally, focusing on finer details of the effect of planning problems on reduction, we show that filled pauses (uh and um) are the strongest factor in predicting lengthening of a previous function word.  The results bear on issues in speech recognition and models of speech production. 
EFFECTS OF SPEAKING RATE AND WORD FREQUENCY ON CONVERSATIONAL PRONUNCIATIONS| ABSTRACT The possible set of pronunciations in continuous speech corpora change dynamically with many factors.  Two variables, speaking rate and word predictability, seemed to be promising candidates for integration into dynamic ASR pronunciation models; however, our initial efforts to incorporate these factors into phone-level decision tree models met with limited success.  In this paper, we confirm the intuition that these factors have an effect on ASR systems, and analyze the relationship between these factors and pronunciations in order to shed light on why the decision trees models failed.  We present a statistical exploration of the effects of these factors at the word, syllable, and phone level in the Switchboard corpus.  We show that both increased speaking rate and word likelihood can induce a significant shift in probabilities of the pronunciations of frequent words.  Using these data, we hypothesize reasons for the difficulty in incorporating these dynamic measures into phone-level decision trees. 
To appear, Journal of the Acoustical Society of America Effects of disfluencies, predictability, and utterance position on word form variation in English conversation| Abstract Function words, especially frequently occurring ones such as (the, that,
INTERNATIONAL COMPUTER SCIENCE INSTITUTE| Abstract This tutorial gives
APPLYING PRONUNCIATION MODELING TECHNIQUES TO FRENCH| ABSTRACT This paper describes the use of data-driven pronunciation modeling techniques to substantially reduce error in a large vocabulary hybrid ANN/HMM speech recognition system for French.  Pronunciations from canonical transcriptions are combined with pronunciations from a text-to-speech system.  Forced alignments are used to calculate pronunciations' probabilities and to eliminate bad pronunciations.  Phonetic rules are used to smooth probabilities and ensure the inclusion of pronunciations that may not be present in the training data.  Issues concerning the choice of phonemes for the system are also discussed. 
An Overview of the SPRACH System for the Transcription of Broadcast News| ABSTRACT This paper describes the SPRACH system developed for the 1998 Hub-4E broadcast news evaluation.  The system is based on the connectionist-HMM framework and uses both recurrent neural network and multi-layer perceptron acoustic models.  We describe both a system designed for the primary transcription hub, and a system for the less-than 10 times real-time spoke.  We then describe recent developments to CHRONOS, a time-first stack decoder.  We show how these developments have simplified the evaluation system, and led to significant reductions in the error rate of the 10x real-time system.  We also present a system designed to operate in real-time with negligible search error. 
Reduction of English function words in Switchboard|
The effects of collocational strength and contextual predictability in lexical production|
Dynamic Pronunciation Models for Automatic Speech Recognition,|
Connectionist speech recognition|
Not just what, but also when: Guided automatic pronunciation modeling for Broadcast News|
The SPRACH system for the transcription of broadcast news,|
Using Semantic Language Models within ASR Dialogue Systems",|
Metrics for Measuring Domain Independence of Semantic Classes",|
Dynamic pronunciation models for automatic speech recognition",|
Effects of disfluencies, predictability, and utterance position on word form|
Discourse Segmentation of Multi-Party Conversation|
A comparison of data-derived and knowledge-based modeling of pronunciation variation|
Hybrid natural language generation for spoken dialog systems|
The structure of repetition strings in the Switchboard corpus|
Incorporating contextual phonetics into automatic speech recognition|
Ambiguity representation and resolution in spoken dialogue systems|
On the Road to Improved Lexical Confusability Metrics|
Effects of disfluencies, predictability, and utterance position on word form variation in English conversation", Journal of the Acoustic Society of|
Discriminative training of language models for speech recognition|
Reduction of English function words|
Form variation of English function words|
