Capturing characteristic structural features for motif detection using a hierarchical Bayesian Markovian model| Abstract The detection of novel DNA motifs in the regulatory regions of genes provides important information regarding the organization and functional mechanisms of gene regulation.  A wealth of biological evidence suggest that biological motifs are more than just conserved nucleotide strings but may have common structural properties underlying the seemingly diverse consensus sequences, such as characteristic positional dependencies and nucleotide composition.  This subtle but valuable information is hard to capture and often ignored in most existing motif finders, rendering them incapable of distinguishing biologically more plausible motifs from trivial or biologically meaningless recurrent patterns.  In this paper, we present HMDM, a novel dynamic Bayesian model for motifs in biopolymer sequences.  HMDM is a hidden Markov Dirichletmultinomial model which captures rich biological prior knowledge and positional dependencies in motif local structure in a principled way.  We also bring to bear the variational EM algorithm, a deterministic and highly efficient optimization algorithm for model fitting, Bayesian estimation of motif parameters and inference of locations of hidden motifs.  Our model improves over existing models that ignore biological priors and positional dependencies.  It shows higher sensitivity to motifs, notable ability to distinguish genuine motifs from false recurring patterns and flexibility for complex detection tasks.  Serving as a local alignment component of the LOGOS [20] 1 model in a real multiple motif detection task, HMDM is able to recognize several known motifs, as well as ex# To whom correspondence should be addressed. 
Bilingual Word Spectral Clustering for Statistical Machine Translation| Abstract In this paper, a variant of a spectral clustering algorithm is proposed for bilingual word clustering.  The proposed algorithm generates the two sets of clusters for both languages efficiently with high semantic correlation within monolingual clusters, and high translation quality across the clusters between two languages.  Each cluster level translation is considered as a bilingual concept, which generalizes words in bilingual clusters.  This scheme improves the robustness for statistical machine translation models.  Two HMMbased translation models are tested to use these bilingual clusters.  Improved perplexity, word alignment accuracy, and translation quality are observed in our experiments. 
A generalized mean field algorithm for variational inference in exponential families| Abstract We present a class of generalized mean field (GMF) algorithms for approximate inference in exponential family graphical models which is analogous to the generalized belief propagation (GBP) or cluster variational methods.  While those methods are based on overlapping clusters, our approach is based on nonoverlapping clusters.  Unlike the cluster variational methods, the approach is proved to converge to a globally consistent set of marginals and a lower bound on the likelihood, while providing much of the flexibility associated with cluster variational methods.  We present experiments that analyze the effect of different choices of clustering on inference quality, and compare GMF with belief propagation on several canonical models. 
MotifPrototyper: a Bayesian Profile Model for Motif Families| Abstract In this paper, we address the problem of modeling generic features of structurally but not textually related DNA motifs, that is, motifs whose consensus sequences are entirely different, but nevertheless share "meta-sequence features" reflecting similarities in the DNA binding domains of their associated protein recognizers.  We present MotifPrototyper, a profile Bayesian model which can capture structural properties typical of particular families of motifs.  Each family corresponds to transcription regulatory proteins with similar types of structural signatures in their DNA binding domains.  We show how to train MotifPrototypers from biologically identified motifs categorized according to the TRANSFAC categorization of transcription factors, and present empirical results of motif classification, motif parameter estimation and de novo motif detection using the learned profile models. 
LOGOS: a modular Bayesian model for de novo motif detection| Abstract The complexity of the global organization and internal structures of motifs in higher eukaryotic organisms raises significant challenges for motif detection techniques.  To achieve successful de novo motif detection it is necessary to model the complex dependencies within and among motifs and incorporate biological prior knowledge.  In this paper, we present LOGOS, an integrated LOcal and GlObal motif Sequence model for biopolymer sequences, which provides a principled framework for developing, modularizing, extending and computing expressive motif models for complex biopolymer sequence analysis.  LOGOS consists of two interacting submodels: HMDM, a local alignment model capturing biological prior knowledge and positional dependence within the motif local structure; and HMM, a global motif distribution model modeling frequencies and dependencies of motif occurrences.  Model parameters can be fit using training motifs within an empirical Bayesian framework.  A variational EM algorithm is developed for de novo motif detection.  LOGOS improves over existing models that ignore biological priors and dependencies in motif structures and motif occurrences, and demonstrates superior performance on both semi-realistic test data and cisregulatory sequences from yeast and Drosophila sequences with regard to sensitivity, specificity, flexibility and extensibility. 
Graph partition strategies for generalized mean field inference| Abstract An autonomous variational inference algorithm for arbitrary graphical models requires the ability to optimize variational approximations over the space of model parameters as well as over the choice of tractable families used for the variational approximation.  In this paper, we present a novel combination of graph partitioning algorithms with a generalized mean field (GMF) inference algorithm.  This combination optimizes over disjoint clustering of variables and performs inference using those clusters.  We provide a formal analysis of the relationship between the graph cut and the GMF approximation, and explore several graph partition strategies empirically.  Our empirical results provide rather clear support for a weighted version of MinCut as a useful clustering algorithm for GMF inference, which is consistent with the implications from the formal analysis. 
Supervised detection of regulatory motifs in DNA sequences| Abstract Identification of transcription factor binding sites (regulatory motifs) is a major interest in contemporary biology.  We propose a new likelihood based method, COMODE, for identifying structural motifs in DNA sequences.  Commonly used methods (e. g.  MEME, Gibbs sampler) model binding sites as families of sequences described by a position weight matrix (PWM) and identify PWMs that maximize the likelihood of observed sequence data under a simple multinomial mixture model.  This model assumes that the positions of the PWM correspond to independent multinomial distributions with four cell probabilities.  We address supervising the search for DNA binding sites using the information derived from structural characteristics of protein-DNA interactions.  We extend the simple multinomial mixture model by incorporating constraints on the information content profiles or on specific parameters of the motif PWMs.  The parameters of this extended model are estimated by maximum likelihood using a nonlinear constraint optimization method.  Likelihoodbased cross-validation is used to select model parameters such as motif width and constraint type.  The performance of COMODE is compared with existing motif detection methods on simulated data that incorporate real motif examples from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.  The proposed method is especially effective when the motif of interest appears as a weak signal in the data.  Some of the transcription factor binding data of Lee et al.  (2002) were also analyzed using COMODE and biologically verified sites were identified. 
CLIFF: clustering of high-dimensional microarray data via iterative feature filtering using normalized cuts| ABSTRACT We present CLIFF, an algorithm for clustering biological samples using gene expression microarray data.  This clustering problem is difficult for several reasons, in particular the sparsity of the data, the high dimensionality of the feature (gene) space, and the fact that many features are irrelevant or redundant.  Our algorithm iterates between two computational processes, feature filtering and clustering.  Given a reference partition that approximates the correct clustering of the samples, our feature filtering procedure ranks the features according to their intrinsic discriminability, relevance to the reference partition, and irredundancy to other relevant features, and uses this ranking to select the features to be used in the following round of clustering.  Our clustering algorithm, which is based on the concept of a normalized cut, clusters the samples into a new reference partition on the basis of the selected features.  On a well-studied problem involving 72 leukemia samples and 7130 genes, we demonstrate that CLIFF outperforms standard clustering approaches that do not consider the feature selection issue, and produces a result that is very close to the original expert labeling of the sample set. 
Feature selection for high-dimensional genomic microarray data| Abstract We report on the successful application of feature selection methods to a classification problem in molecular biology involving only 72 data points in a 7130 dimensional space.  Our approach is a hybrid of filter and wrapper approaches to feature selection.  We make use of a sequence of simple filters, culminating in Koller and Sahami's (1996) Markov Blanket filter, to decide on particular feature subsets for each subset cardinality.  We compare between the resulting subset cardinalities using cross validation.  The paper also investigates regularization methods as an alternative to feature selection, showing that feature selection methods are preferable in this problem. 
A Hierarchical Bayesian Markovian Model for Motifs in Biopolymer Sequences| Abstract We propose a dynamic Bayesian model for motifs in biopolymer sequences which captures rich biological prior knowledge and positional dependencies in motif structure in a principled way.  Our model posits that the position-specific multinomial parameters for monomer distribution are distributed as a latent Dirichlet-mixture random variable, and the position-specific Dirichlet component is determined by a hidden Markov process.  Model parameters can be fit on training motifs using a variational EM algorithm within an empirical Bayesian framework.  Variational inference is also used for detecting hidden motifs.  Our model improves over previous models that ignore biological priors and positional dependence.  It has much higher sensitivity to motifs during detection and a notable ability to distinguish genuine motifs from false recurring patterns. 
Bayesian haplo-type inference via the dirichlet process| Abstract The problem of inferring haplotypes from genotypes of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) is essential for the understanding of genetic variation within and among populations, with important applications to the genetic analysis of disease propensities and other complex traits.  The problem can be formulated as a mixture model, where the mixture components correspond to the pool of haplotypes in the population.  The size of this pool is unknown; indeed, knowing the size of the pool would correspond to knowing something significant about the genome and its history.  Thus methods for fitting the genotype mixture must crucially address the problem of estimating a mixture with an unknown number of mixture components.  In this paper we present a Bayesian approach to this problem based on a nonparametric prior known as the Dirichlet process.  The model also incorporates a likelihood that captures statistical errors in the haplotype/genotype relationship.  We apply our approach to the analysis of both simulated and real genotype data, and compare to extant methods. 
On semidefinite relaxation for normalized k-cut and connections to spectral clustering| Report No. 
From Lasso regression to Feature vector machine| Abstract Lasso regression tends to assign zero weights to most irrelevant or redundant features, and hence is a promising technique for feature selection.  Its limitation, however, is that it only offers solutions to linear models.  Kernel machines with feature scaling techniques have been studied for feature selection with non-linear models.  However, such approaches require to solve hard non-convex optimization problems.  This paper proposes a new approach named the Feature Vector Machine (FVM).  It reformulates the standard Lasso regression into a form isomorphic to SVM, and this form can be easily extended for feature selection with non-linear models by introducing kernels defined on feature vectors.  FVM generates sparse solutions in the nonlinear feature space and it is much more tractable compared to feature scaling kernel machines.  Our experiments with FVM on simulated data show encouraging results in identifying the small number of dominating features that are non-linearly correlated to the response, a task the standard Lasso fails to complete. 
Distance Metric Learning with Application to Clustering with Side-Information| Abstract Many algorithms rely critically on being given a good metric over their inputs.  For instance, data can often be clustered in many "plausible" ways, and if a clustering algorithm such as K-means initially fails to find one that is meaningful to a user, the only recourse may be for the user to manually tweak the input space's metric until sufficiently good clusters are found.  For these and other applications requiring good metrics, it is desirable that we provide a more systematic way for users to indicate what they consider "similar. " For instance, we may ask them to provide examples.  In this paper, we present an algorithm that, given examples of similar (and, if desired, dissimilar) pairs of points in R n , learns a distance metric over R n that respects these relationships.  Our method is based on posing metric learning as a convex optimization problem, which allows us to give efficient, local-optima-free algorithms.  We also demonstrate empirically that the learned metrics can be used to significantly improve clustering performance. 
Distance metric learnign with application to clustering with side-information|
CisModuler: modeling cis-regulatory modules in complex genomic sequences using a Bayesian hidden Markov model|
Supervised detection of regulatory motifs in DNA sequences|
General documentation for BIBT E X users, contained in the file|
Distance learning metric|
Documentation for general BibT E X users, 8|
On generalized variational inference, with application to relational probability models|
Feature selection in microarray analysis,|
