Sign Classification for the Visually Impaired| Abstract Our world is populated with visual information that a sighted person makes use of daily.  Unfortunately, the visually impaired are deprived from such information, which limits their mobility in unconstrained environments.  To help alleviate this we are developing a wearable system that is capable of detecting and recognizing signs in natural scenes.  The system is composed of two main components, sign detection and recognition.  The sign detector, uses a conditional maximum entropy model to find regions in an image that correspond to a sign.  The sign recognizer matches the hypothesized sign regions with sign images in a database.  The system decides if the most likely sign is correct or if the hypothesized sign region does not belong to a sign in the database.  Our data sets encompass a wide range of variability including changes in lighting, orientation and viewing angle.  In this paper, we present an overview of the system and the performance of its two main components, while paying particular attention to the recognition phase.  Tested on 3,975 sign images from two different data sets, the recognition phase achieves 99. 5% with 35 distinct signs and 92. 8% with 65 distinct signs. 
Hyperspacings and the Estimation of Information Theoretic Quantities| Abstract The estimation of probability densities from data is widely used as an intermediate step in the estimation of entropy, Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence, and mutual information, and for statistical tasks such as hypothesis testing.  We propose an alternative to density estimation-partitioning a space into regions whose approximate probability mass is known--that can be used for the same purposes.  We call these regions hyperspacings, a generalization of spacings in one dimension.  After discussing one-dimensional spacings estimates of entropy and KLdivergence, we show how hyperspacings can be used to estimate these quantities (and mutual information) in higher dimensions.  Our approach outperforms certain widely used estimators based on intermediate density estimates.  Using similar ideas, we also present a new distributionfree hypothesis test for distributional equivalence that compares favorably with the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test.  Using hyperspacings, it is easily extended to multiple dimensions. 
Building a Classification Cascade for Visual Identification from One Example| Abstract Object identification (OID) is specialized recognition where the category is known (e. g.  cars) and the algorithm recognizes an object's exact identity (e. g.  Bob's BMW).  Two special challenges characterize OID.  (1) Inter-class variation is often small (many cars look alike) and may be dwarfed by illumination or pose changes.  (2) There may be many classes but few or just one positive "training" examples per class.  Due to (1), a solution must locate possibly subtle objectspecific salient features (a door handle) while avoiding distracting ones (e. g.  specular highlights).  However, (2) rules out direct techniques of feature selection.  We describe an on-line algorithm that takes one query image from a known category and builds an efficient "same" vs.  "different" classification cascade by predicting the most discriminative feature set for that object.  Our method not only estimates the saliency and scoring function for each candidate feature, but also models the dependency between features, building an ordered feature sequence unique to a specific query image, maximizing cumulative information content.  Learned stopping thresholds make the classifier very efficient.  To make this possible, category-specific characteristics are learned automatically in an off-line training procedure from labeled image pairs of the category, without prior knowledge about the category.  Our method, using the same algorithm for both cars and faces, outperforms a wide variety of other methods. 
ICA Using Spacings Estimates of Entropy| Abstract This paper presents a new algorithm for the independent components analysis (ICA) problem based on an efficient entropy estimator.  Like many previous methods, this algorithm directly minimizes the measure of departure from independence according to the estimated Kullback-Leibler divergence between the joint distribution and the product of the marginal distributions.  We pair this approach with efficient entropy estimators from the statistics literature.  In particular, the entropy estimator we use is consistent and exhibits rapid convergence.  The algorithm based on this estimator is simple, computationally efficient, intuitively appealing, and outperforms other well known algorithms.  In addition, the estimator's relative insensitivity to outliers translates into superior performance by our ICA algorithm on outlier tests.  We present favorable comparisons to the Kernel ICA, FAST-ICA, JADE, and extended Infomax algorithms in extensive simulations.  We also provide public domain source code for our algorithms. 
A Probabilistic Upper Bound on Differential Entropy| Abstract--- The differential entropy is a quantity employed ubiquitously in communications, statistical learning, physics, and many other fields.  We present, to our knowledge, the first non-trivial probabilistic upper bound on the entropy of an unknown one-dimensional distribution, given the support of the distribution and a sample from that distribution.  The bound is completely general in that it does not depend in any way on the form of the unknown distribution (among other things, it does not require that the distribution have a density).  Our bound uses previous distribution-free bounds on the cumulative distribution function of a random variable given a sample of that variable.  We provide a simple, fast, and intuitive algorithm for computing the entropy bound from a sample. 
Many Heads are Better than One: Jointly Removing Bias from Multiple MRIs using Nonparametric Maximum Likelihood| In both cases, the specific location of a pixel in the image does not influence the probability calculation.  Our approach, similar to methods of joint registration, simultaneously eliminates the bias from a set of images of the same anatomy, but from different patients.  We use the statistics from the same location across different patients' images, rather than within an image, to eliminate bias fields from all of the images simultaneously.  Evaluating the likelihood of a particular voxel in one patient's scan with respect to voxels in the same location in a set of other patients' scans disambiguates effects that might be due to either bias fields or anatomy.  We present a variety of "two-dimensional" experimental results (working with one image from each patient) showing how our method overcomes serious problems experienced by other methods.  We also present preliminary results on full three-dimensional volume correction across patients. 
Learning Hyper-Features for Visual Identification| Abstract We address the problem of identifying specific instances of a class (cars) from a set of images all belonging to that class.  Although we cannot build a model for any particular instance (as we may be provided with only one "training" example of it), we can use information extracted from observing other members of the class.  We pose this task as a learning problem, in which the learner is given image pairs, labeled as matching or not, and must discover which image features are most consistent for matching instances and discriminative for mismatches.  We explore a patch based representation, where we model the distributions of similarity measurements defined on the patches.  Finally, we describe an algorithm that selects the most salient patches based on a mutual information criterion.  This algorithm performs identification well for our challenging dataset of car images, after matching only a few, well chosen patches. 
Joint MRI Bias Removal Using Entropy Minimization Across Images| Abstract The correction of bias in magnetic resonance images is an important problem in medical image processing.  Most previous approaches have used a maximum likelihood method to increase the likelihood of the pixels in a single image by adaptively estimating a correction to the unknown image bias field.  The pixel likelihoods are defined either in terms of a pre-existing tissue model, or non-parametrically in terms of the image's own pixel values.  In both cases, the specific location of a pixel in the image is not used to calculate the likelihoods.  We suggest a new approach in which we simultaneously eliminate the bias from a set of images of the same anatomy, but from different patients.  We use the statistics from the same location across different images, rather than within an image, to eliminate bias fields from all of the images simultaneously.  The method builds a "multi-resolution" non-parametric tissue model conditioned on image location while eliminating the bias fields associated with the original image set.  We present experiments on both synthetic and real MR data sets, and present comparisons with other methods. 
Detecting Acromegaly: Screening for Disease with a Morphable Model| Abstract Acromegaly is a rare disorder which affects approximately 50 out of every million people.  The disease is typically caused when a tumor of the pituitary gland secretes excess growth hormone, causing swelling of the hands, feet, and face, and eventually permanent changes due to abnormal bone growth in areas such as the jaw, the brow ridge, and the cheek bones.  Because the disease is so rare and the onset of symptoms is slow, it is often missed by general practitioners and other health care professionals.  This means that the disease often progresses beyond where it might if it were identified and treated earlier.  In this work, we consider a semi-automated approach to detecting the presence of acromegaly in people, using a supervised learning paradigm.  We built a training set of images by taking frontal photographs of 24 acromegalic patients and photographs of 25 disease-free subjects.  Because the recognition of acromegaly is dependent upon subtle features which are difficult to detect locally in the image, we decided upon a more global method of modelling that uses information across the entire photograph.  In particular, we modelled each subject's face in an analysisby-synthesis loop using the three-dimensional morphable face model of Blanz and Vetter [2].  The parameters of the morphable model capture many features of the threedimensional shape of the subject's head from just a single photograph and are excellent features with which to classify subjects as either acromegalic or not.  We report encouraging results of a classifier built from the training set of real human subjects. 
Sign Classification using Local and Meta-Features| Abstract Our world is populated with visual information that a sighted person makes use of daily.  Unfortunately, the visually impaired are deprived of such information, which limits their mobility in unconstrained environments.  To help alleviate this we are developing a wearable system [1, 19] that is capable of detecting and recognizing signs in natural scenes.  The system is composed of two main components, sign detection and recognition.  The sign detector, uses a conditional maximum entropy model to find regions in an image that correspond to a sign.  The sign recognizer matches the hypothesized sign regions with sign images in a database.  It then uses the match scores to compute metafeatures and train a classifier to decide if the most likely sign is correct or if the hypothesized sign region does not belong to a sign in the database.  Our data sets encompass a wide range of variability including changes in lighting, orientation and viewing angle.  In this paper, we present an overview of the system while while paying particular attention to the recognition component.  Tested on 3,975 sign images from two different data sets, the recognition phase achieves accuracies of 99. 5% with 35 distinct signs and 92. 8% with 65 distinct signs. 
Learning to Locate Informative Features for Visual Identification| Abstract Object identification (OID) is specialized recognition where the category is known (e. g.  cars) and the algorithm recognizes an object's exact identity (e. g.  Bob's BMW).  Two special challenges characterize OID.  (1) Inter-class variation is often small (many cars look alike) and may be dwarfed by illumination or pose changes.  (2) There may be many classes but few or just one positive "training" examples per class.  Due to (1), a solution must locate possibly subtle objectspecific salient features (a door handle) while avoiding distracting ones (a specular highlight).  However, (2) rules out direct techniques of feature selection.  We describe an on-line algorithm that takes one model image from a known category and builds an efficient "same" vs.  "different" classification cascade by predicting the most discriminative feature set for that object.  Our method not only estimates the saliency and scoring function for each candidate feature, but also models the dependency between features, building an ordered feature sequence unique to a specific model image, maximizing cumulative information content.  Learned stopping thresholds make the classifier very efficient.  To make this possible, category-specific characteristics are learned automatically in an off-line training procedure from labeled image pairs of the category, without prior knowledge about the category.  Our method, using the same algorithm for both cars and faces, outperforms a wide variety of other methods. 
Ecient Population Registration of 3D Data| Abstract We present a population registration framework that acts on large collections or populations of data volumes.  The data alignment procedure runs in a simultaneous fashion, with every member of the population approaching the central tendency of the collection at the same time.  Such a mechanism eliminates the need for selecting a particular reference frame a priori, resulting in a non-biased estimate of a digital atlas.  Our algorithm adopts an ane congealing framework with an information theoretic objective function and is optimized via a gradientbased stochastic approximation process embedded in a multi-resolution setting.  We present experimental results on both synthetic and real images. 
Automatic sign classification for the visually impaired|
