Learning Hierarchical Models of Scenes, Objects, and Parts| Abstract We describe a hierarchical probabilistic model for the detection and recognition of objects in cluttered, natural scenes.  The model is based on a set of parts which describe the expected appearance and position, in an object centered coordinate frame, of features detected by a low-level interest operator.  Each object category then has its own distribution over these parts, which are shared between objects.  We learn the parameters of this model via a Gibbs sampler which uses the graphical model's structure to analytically average over many parameters.  Applied to a database of images of isolated objects, the sharing of parts among objects improves detection accuracy when few training examples are available.  We also extend this hierarchical framework to scenes containing multiple objects. 
Nonparametric Belief Propagation| Abstract In many applications of graphical models arising in computer vision, the hidden variables of interest are most naturally specified by continuous, non-Gaussian distributions.  There exist inference algorithms for discrete approximations to these continuous distributions, but for the highdimensional variables typically of interest, discrete inference becomes infeasible.  Stochastic methods such as particle filters provide an appealing alternative.  However, existing techniques fail to exploit the rich structure of the graphical models describing many vision problems.  Drawing on ideas from regularized particle filters and belief propagation (BP), this paper develops a nonparametric belief propagation (NBP) algorithm applicable to general graphs.  Each NBP iteration uses an efficient sampling procedure to update kernel-based approximations to the true, continuous likelihoods.  The algorithm can accomodate an extremely broad class of potential functions, including nonparametric representations.  Thus, NBP extends particle filtering methods to the more general vision problems that graphical models can describe.  We apply the NBP algorithm to infer component interrelationships in a partsbased face model, allowing location and reconstruction of occluded features. 
Describing Visual Scenes using Transformed Dirichlet Processes| Abstract Motivated by the problem of learning to detect and recognize objects with minimal supervision, we develop a hierarchical probabilistic model for the spatial structure of visual scenes.  In contrast with most existing models, our approach explicitly captures uncertainty in the number of object instances depicted in a given image.  Our scene model is based on the transformed Dirichlet process (TDP), a novel extension of the hierarchical DP in which a set of stochastically transformed mixture components are shared between multiple groups of data.  For visual scenes, mixture components describe the spatial structure of visual features in an object--centered coordinate frame, while transformations model the object positions in a particular image.  Learning and inference in the TDP, which has many potential applications beyond computer vision, is based on an empirically effective Gibbs sampler.  Applied to a dataset of partially labeled street scenes, we show that the TDP's inclusion of spatial structure improves detection performance, flexibly exploiting partially labeled training images. 
Visual Hand Tracking Using Nonparametric Belief Propagation| Abstract--- This paper develops probabilistic methods for visual tracking of a three-dimensional geometric hand model from monocular image sequences.  We consider a redundant representation in which each model component is described by its position and orientation in the world coordinate frame.  A prior model is then defined which enforces the kinematic constraints implied by the model's joints.  We show that this prior has a local structure, and is in fact a pairwise Markov random field.  Furthermore, our redundant representation allows color and edge-based likelihood measures, such as the Chamfer distance, to be similarly decomposed in cases where there is no self--occlusion.  Given this graphical model of hand kinematics, we may track the hand's motion using the recently proposed nonparametric belief propagation (NBP) algorithm.  Like particle filters, NBP approximates the posterior distribution over hand configurations as a collection of samples.  However, NBP uses the graphical structure to greatly reduce the dimensionality of these distributions, providing improved robustness.  Several methods are used to improve NBP's computational efficiency, including a novel KD-tree based method for fast Chamfer distance evaluation.  We provide simulations showing that NBP may be used to refine inaccurate model initializations, as well as track hand motion through extended image sequences. 
Distributed Occlusion Reasoning for Tracking with Nonparametric Belief Propagation| Abstract We describe a three--dimensional geometric hand model suitable for visual tracking applications.  The kinematic constraints implied by the model's joints have a probabilistic structure which is well described by a graphical model.  Inference in this model is complicated by the hand's many degrees of freedom, as well as multimodal likelihoods caused by ambiguous image measurements.  We use nonparametric belief propagation (NBP) to develop a tracking algorithm which exploits the graph's structure to control complexity, while avoiding costly discretization.  While kinematic constraints naturally have a local structure, self-occlusions created by the imaging process lead to complex interpendencies in color and edge--based likelihood functions.  However, we show that local structure may be recovered by introducing binary hidden variables describing the occlusion state of each pixel.  We augment the NBP algorithm to infer these occlusion variables in a distributed fashion, and then analytically marginalize over them to produce hand position estimates which properly account for occlusion events.  We provide simulations showing that NBP may be used to refine inaccurate model initializations, as well as track hand motion through extended image sequences. 
Interruption Costs, Customer Satisfaction and Expectations for Service Reliability|
Experience with application of reliability and value of service analysis in system planning Power Systems,|
