Divisive Inhibition in Recurrent Networks| Abstract Models of visual cortex suggest that response selectivity can arise from recurrent networks operating at high gain.  However, such networks have a number of problematic features: 1) they operate perilously close to a point of instability, 2) small changes in synaptic strength can dramatically modify the degree of amplification, and 3) they respond slowly to rapidly changing stimuli.  Divisive inhibition, acting through interneurons that are themselves divisively inhibited, can solve these problems without degrading the selectivity of a recurrent network. 
The Contribution of Vestibular and Proprioceptive Inputs to Path Integration| Abstract In two experiments, subjects traveled through virtual mazes, encountering target objects along the way.  Their task was to indicate the direction to these target objects from a terminal location in the maze (from which the objects could no longer be seen).  Subjects controlled their motion through the mazes using three locomotion modes.  In the Walk mode, subjects walked normally in the experimental room.  For each subject, body position and heading were tracked, and the tracking information was used to continuously update the visual imagery presented to the subjects on a head-mounted display.  This process created the impression of immersion in the experimental maze.  In the Visual Turn mode subjects moved through the environment using a joystick to control their turning.  The only sensory information subjects received about rotation and translation was that provided by the computer-generated imagery.  The Real Turn mode was midway between the other two modes, in that subjects physically turned in place to steer while translating in the virtual maze; thus translation through the maze was signaled only by the computer-generated imagery, whereas rotations were signaled by the imagery as well as by proprioceptive and vestibular information.  The dependent measure in the experiment was the absolute error of the subject's directional estimate to each target from the terminal location.  Performance in the Walk mode was significantly better than in the Visual Turn mode but other trends were not significant.  A secondary finding was that the degree of motion sickness depended upon locomotion mode, with the lowest incidence occurring in the Walk mode.  Both findings suggest the advisability of having subjects explore virtual environments using real rotations and translations in tasks involving spatial orientation. 
Recurrent Cortical Amplification Produces Complex Cell Responses| Abstract Cortical amplification has been proposed as a mechanism for enhancing the selectivity of neurons in the primary visual cortex.  Less appreciated is the fact that the same form of amplification can also be used to de-tune or broaden selectivity.  Using a network model with recurrent cortical circuitry, we propose that the spatial phase invariance of complex cell responses arises through recurrent amplification of feedforward input.  Neurons in the network respond like simple cells at low gain and complex cells at high gain.  Similar recurrent mechanisms may play a role in generating invariant representations of feedforward input elsewhere in the visual processing pathway. 
SPATIAL UPDATING OF SELF-POSITION AND ORIENTATION DURING REAL, IMAGINED, AND VIRTUAL LOCOMOTION|
A recurrent network model for the phase invariance of complex cell responses| Abstract Cortical amplification is a mechanism for modifying the selectivity of neurons through recurrent interactions.  Although conventionally used to enhance selectivity, cortical amplification can also broaden it, de-tuning neurons.  Here we show that the spatial phase invariance of complex cell responses in primary visual cortex can arise using recurrent amplification of feedforward input.  Neurons in the model networkrespond like simple cells when recurrent connections are weak and complex cells when they are strong.  Simple or complex cells can coexist in such a network, and they can have a range of selectivities for image characteristics such as spatial frequency. 
Submitted to: Plasma Physics and ControlledFusion The Mercier Criterion in Reversed Shear Tokamak Plasmas| Abstract A recentnumerical study has found that, contrary to conventional theoretical and experimental expectations, reversed shear plasmas are unstable primarily because the term proportional to the shear in the Mercier criterion is destabilizing.  In the present study, the role of the magnetic shear, both local and global, is examined for various tokamak configurations with monotonic and non-monotonic safety factor profiles.  The enhancement of the local shear due to the outward shift of the magnetic axis suggests that the latter are less susceptible to interchanges.  Furthermore, by regrouping the terms in the criterion, the V 00 term when differentiated instead with respect to the toroidal flux, is shown to absorb the dominant shear term.  No Mercier instabilityis found for similar profiles as in the previous study. 
Locomotion mode affects the updating of objects encountered during travel: The contribution of vestibular and proprioceptive inputs to path integration|
Low-n shear Alfven spectra in axisymmetric toroidal plasmas,|
Input-specific adaptation in complex cells through synaptic depression|
NOVA: a nonvariational code for solving MHD stability of axisymmetric toroidal plasmas,|
in press)| Spatial updating of self-position and orientation during real, imagined, and virtual locomotion. 
From sensory inputs to knowledge of spatial layout|
The second region of stability against ballooning modes|
Balloooning mode stability of bean-shaped cross sections for high-# tokamak plasmas|
Decisions and the evolution of memory: Multiple systems, multiple functions|
in Proceedings of the 1998 International Conference on Plasma Physics combined with the 25th European Physical Society Conference on Controlled Fusion and Plasma Physics,|
Updating an egocentric spatial representation during real, imagined, and virtual locomotion|
