ANALOG VLSI SPIKING NEURAL NETWORK WITH ADDRESS DOMAIN PROBABILISTIC SYNAPSES| ABSTRACT We present an analog VLSI address-event transceiver containing an array of integrate-and-fire neurons and a scheme for implementing a reconfigurable neural network with probabilistic synapses.  Neural "spikes" are transmitted through address-event representation---the address of the sending neuron is communicated through an asynchronous request and acknowledgment cycle.  Continuousvalued synaptic weights are implemented by probabilistically routing address events.  Results from a prototype system with 1,024 analog VLSI integrate-and-fire neurons, each with up to 128 probabilistic synapses, demonstrate these concepts in an image processing application. 
Focal-Plane Image and Beam Quality Sensors for Adaptive Optics| Abstract Control of adaptive optical elements for real-time wavefront phase distortion compensation is a rapidly growing field of research and technology development.  Wavefront correction is essential for reliable long distance, near-ground laser communication as well as for imaging extended objects over large distances.  Crucial to adaptively correcting the wavefront is a performance metric that can be directly evaluated from the acquired image or received laser beam, to provide real-time feedback to the controller adapting the wavefront.  Custom VLSI controllers and sensors are a good match to the requirements of high resolution, real-time adaptive optical systems.  In this paper we introduce two VLSI focalplane sensors that supply image and beam quality metrics to an adaptive controller that performs parallel perturbative stochastic gradient descent on a spatial phase modulator in the control loop.  For imaging applications, we designed an image quality metric chip that reports the high spatial frequency energy content of the received image.  For laser communications applications, we designed a beam variance metric chip that calculates the compactness of the transmitted or received beam as well as its centroid location.  We present experimental results from both sensor chips and demonstrate the beam variance metric chip in the feedback loop of an adaptive optics laser receiver. 
VLSI DELTA-SIGMA CELLULAR NEURAL NETWORK FOR ANALOG RANDOM VECTOR GENERATION| ABSTRACT We present a cellular neural network architecture for parallel analog random vector generation, including experimental results from an analog VLSI prototype with 64 channels.  Nearest-neighbor coupling between cells produces parallel channels of uniformly distributed random analog values, with statistics that are truly uncorrelated across channels and over time.  The cell for each random channel emulates an integrating nonlinearity essentially implementing a delta-sigma modulator, and measures 100 #m # 120 #min2#m CMOS technology.  Applications include analog encryption and secure communications, analog built-in self-test, stochastic neural networks, and simulated annealing optimization and learning. 
Analog VLSI Cellular Implementation of the Boundary Contour System| Abstract We present an analog VLSI cellular architecture implementing a simplified version of the Boundary Contour System (BCS) for real-time image processing.  Inspired by neuromorphic models across several layers of visual cortex, the design integrates in each pixel the functions of simple cells, complex cells, hyper-complex cells, and bipole cells, in three orientations interconnected on a hexagonal grid.  Analog current-mode CMOS circuits are used throughout to perform edge detection, local inhibition, directionally selective long-range diffusive kernels, and renormalizing global gain control.  Experimental results from a fabricated ######### pixel prototype in 1. 2 # m CMOS technology demonstrate the robustness of the architecture in selecting image contours in a cluttered and noisy background. 
BLIND ON-LINE DIGITAL CALIBRATION OF MULTI-STAGE NYQUIST-RATE AND OVERSAMPLED A/D CONVERTERS| ABSTRACT A linear calibration technique for on-line digital correction of analog imprecisions in the implementation of multi-stage analog-todigital converters, is presented.  The calibration is `blind', in that it uses no reference and operates directly on the digital output during conversion.  The only assumption made on the input signal is that its spectrum is bandlimited.  The excess sampling over Nyquist bandwidth is used for least-squares auto-zeroing calibration.  The technique extends directly to digital correction of multi-stage oversampledA/D converters wherea multi-bit quantizer is implemented using a pipelined algorithmic A/D converter.  Behavioral simulations on pipelined algorithmic and dual-quantization oversampled A/D converters demonstrate significant improvements in signal-toquantization-noise performance over the uncalibrated case. 
Analog VLSI Stochastic Perturbative Learning Architectures| Abstract We present analog VLSI neuromorphic architectures for a general class of learning tasks,
A Second-Order Log-Domain Bandpass Filter for Audio Frequency Applications| Abstract--- Log-domain filters have recently come into the limelight of the VLSI community as an important class of circuits for implementing continuous-time filters in the current domain [4], [3], [2].  Some papers have discussed log-domain circuit analysis [1] and some have addressed circuit synthesis [2], [5], [6], [7].  In this paper we describe synthesis of a secondorder log-domain bandpass filter, address issues related to lowfrequency (audio-frequency) filter design, and show experimental results from a system fabricated in a standard 2 m BiCMOS technology. 
A Learning Analog Neural Network Chip with Continuous-Time Recurrent Dynamics| Abstract We present experimental results on supervised learning of dynamical features in an analog VLSI neural network chip.  The recurrent network, containing six continuous-time analog neurons and 42 free parameters (connection strengths and thresholds), is trained to generate time-varying outputs approximating given periodic signals presented to the network.  The chip implements a stochastic perturbative algorithm, which observes the error gradient along random directions in the parameter space for error-descent learning.  In addition to the integrated learning functions and the generation of pseudo-random perturbations, the chip provides for teacher forcing and long-term storage of the volatile parameters.  The network learns a 1 kHz circular trajectory in 100 sec.  The chip occupies 2mm \Theta 2mm in a 2m CMOS process, and dissipates 1:2 mW. 
MARGIN PROPAGATION AND FORWARD DECODING IN ANALOG VLSI| ABSTRACT We propose margin propagation as an alternative to probability propagation in forward decoding.  In contrast to sumproduct probability propagation, margin propagation only incurs addition and subtraction in the computation and thus leads to reduced complexity of implementation.  Simulations indicate that margin based forward decoding is more robust to input noise and parameter mismatch than sumproduct probability decoding, and offers superior decoding performance.  We also present an analog VLSI implementation of the margin propagation network independent of MOS device models, and provide experimental results from a prototype fabricated in a ### ### process. 
___| ABSTRACT Implanted sensors offer many advantages to those studying the behavior of the human body.  Unfortunately, the need to power and communicate with devices often requires tradeoffs that compromise their usefulness.  We describe a power harvesting and telemetry chip that allows operation without wires or batteries.  The chip has been fabricated in 0. 5m CMOS.  The chip is able to supply 2mA at 3. 3 V to associated sensors using inductive coupling.  Tests reveal the characteristics of this chip under different loads and at different distances from the transmission coil.  With the preliminary coils, functionality could be maintained with over 28mm between the two coils.  To evaluate the performance of the chip in conditions mimicking implantation in the body, water bearing colloids were introduced between the two coils.  This resulted in a small loss of transfer efficiency, with no change in the behavior of the chip. 
VLSI POTENTIOSTAT ARRAY FOR DISTRIBUTED ELECTROCHEMICAL NEURAL RECORDING| ABSTRACT A neurochemical sensor system is being developed to spatially sense and process neurotransmitters.  This paper reports the design and VLSI implementation of a multichannel potentiostat that interfaces to a nitric-oxide (NO) sensor array.  Picoampere to microampere input currents are range-normalized with programmable gain, and digitized by a bank of current-mode delta-sigma analog-to-digital (A/D) converters.  First-order noise shaping and 4,096-fold oversampling provide high signal-to-noise ratio for the lowfrequency NO transients.  A shift register scans the buffered decimated delta-sigma outputs in bit-serial format providing asynchronous sequential readout.  An 8-channel potentiostat in 0. 5 mCMOS measures 1. 5mm \Theta 1. 5mm, and consumes 0. 5 mW power.  The device is expected to serve as a valuable tool for neurophysiological research and implantable neural prostheses. 
Sub-Microwatt Analog VLSI Support Vector Machine for Pattern Classification and Sequence Estimation| Abstract An analog system-on-chip for kernel-based pattern classification and sequence estimation is presented.  State transition probabilities conditioned on input data are generated by an integrated support vector machine.  Dot product based kernels and support vector coefficients are implemented in analog programmable floating gate translinear circuits, and probabilities are propagated and normalized using sub-threshold current-mode circuits.  A 14-input, 24-state, and 720-support vector forward decoding kernel machine is integrated on a 3mm3mm chip in 0. 5m CMOS technology.  Experiments with the processor trained for speaker verification and phoneme sequence estimation demonstrate real-time recognition accuracy at par with floating-point software, at sub-microwatt power. 
Kerneltron: Support Vector `Machine' in Silicon| Abstract---Detection of complex objects in streaming video poses two fundamental challenges: training from sparse data with proper generalization across variations in the object class and the environment; and the computational power required of the trained classifier running real-time.  The Kerneltron supports the generalization performance of a support vector machine (SVM) and offers the bandwidth and efficiency of a massively parallel architecture.  The mixed-signal very large-scale integration (VLSI) processor is dedicated to the most intensive of SVM operations: evaluating a kernel over large numbers of vectors in high dimensions.  At the core of the Kerneltron is an internally analog, fine-grain computational array performing externally digital inner-products between an incoming vector and each of the stored support vectors.  The three-transistor unit cell in the array combines single-bit dynamic storage, binary multiplication, and zero-latency analog accumulation.  Precise digital outputs are obtained through oversampled quantization of the analog array outputs combined with bit-serial unary encoding of the digital inputs.  The 256 input, 128 vector Kerneltron measures 3mm 3mmin0. 5 m CMOS, delivers 6. 5 GMACS throughput at 5. 9 mW power, and attains 8-bit output resolution. 
Wide-Range, Picoampere-Sensitivity Multichannel VLSI Potentiostat for Neurotransmitter Sensing| Abstract--- Neurotransmitter sensing is critical in studying nervous pathways and neurological disorders.  A 16-channel currentmeasuring VLSI potentiostat with multiple ranges from picoamperes to microamperes is presented for electrochemical detection of electroactive neurotransmitters like dopamine, nitric oxide etc.  The analog-to-digital converter design employs a current-mode, first-order single-bit delta-sigma modulator architecture with a two-stage, digitally reconfigurable oversampling ratio for ranging the conversion scale.  An integrated prototype is fabricated in CMOS technology, and experimentally characterized.  Real-time multi-channel acquisition of dopamine concentration in vitro is performed with a microfabricated sensor array. 
MONAURAL SEPARATION OF INDEPENDENT ACOUSTICAL COMPONENTS| ABSTRACT The problem of blindly separating signal mixtures with fewer mixture components than independent signal sources is mathematically ill-defined, and requires suitable prior information on the nature of the sources.  Recently, it has been shown that sparse methods for function approximation using a Laplacian prior can be effective, but the method fails to separate a single mixture without further prior information.  Other techniques track harmonics, but assume separability in the time-frequency domain.  We show that a measure of temporal and spectral coherence provides an effective cue for separating independent acoustical or sonar sources, in the absence of spatial cues in the monaural case.  The technique is shown to successfully separate single mixtures of sources with significant spectral overlap. 
Gradient Flow Independent Component Analysis in Micropower VLSI| Abstract We present micropower mixed-signal VLSI hardware for real-time blind separation and localization of acoustic sources.  Gradient flow representation of the traveling wave signals acquired over a miniature (1cm diameter) array of four microphones yields linearly mixed instantaneous observations of the time-differentiated sources, separated and localized by independent component analysis (ICA).  The gradient flow and ICA processors each measure 3mm 3mm in 0. 5 m CMOS, and consume 54 W and 180 W power, respectively, from a 3 V supply at 16 ks/s sampling rate.  Experiments demonstrate perceptually clear (12dB) separation and precise localization of two speech sources presented through speakers positioned at 1. 5m from the array on a conference room table.  Analysis of the multipath residuals shows that they are spectrally diffuse, and void of the direct path. 
A Low-Power CMOS Analog Vector Quantizer| Abstract---We present a parallel analog vector quantizer (VQ) in 2. 0-m double-poly CMOS technology and analyze its energetic efficiency.  The prototype chip contains an array of 16 2 16 charge-based distance estimation cells, implementing a 16 analog input, 4-b coded output VQ with a mean absolute difference (MAD) distance metric.  The distance cell including dynamic template storage measures 60 2 78 m 2 .  The output code is produced by a 16-cell winner-take-all (WTA) output circuit of linear complexity which selects the winning template with constant power-delay product, independent of input levels and scale.  Experimental results demonstrate 34 dB analog input dynamic range and 0. 7 mW power dissipation at 3 s cycle. 
Forward-Decoding Kernel-Based Phone Sequence Recognition| Abstract Forward decoding kernel machines (FDKM) combine large-margin classifiers with hidden Markov models (HMM) for maximum a posteriori (MAP) adaptive sequence estimation.  State transitions in the sequence are conditioned on observed data using a kernel-based probability model trained with a recursive scheme that deals effectively with noisy and partially labeled data.  Training over very large datasets is accomplished using a sparse probabilistic support vector machine (SVM) model based on quadratic entropy, and an on-line stochastic steepest descent algorithm.  For speaker-independent continuous phone recognition, FDKM trained over 177,080 samples of the TIMIT database achieves 80. 6% recognition accuracy over the full test set, without use of a prior phonetic language model. 
SPIKE SORTING WITH SUPPORT VECTOR MACHINES| ABSTRACT Spike sorting of neural data from single electrode recordings is a hard problem in machine learning that relies on significant input by human experts.  We approach the task of learning to detect and classify spike waveforms in additive noise using two stages of large margin kernel classification and probability regression.  Controlled numerical experiments using spike and noise data extracted from neural recordings indicate significant improvements in detection and classification accuracy over linear amplitude- and template-based spike sorting techniques. 
A MICROPOWER LEARNING VECTOR QUANTIZER FOR PARALLEL ANALOG-TO-DIGITAL DATA COMPRESSION| ABSTRACT An analog VLSI architecture for learning vector quantization (LVQ), with on-chip adaptation and dynamic storage of the analog templates, is presented.  The architecture extends to Fuzzy ART and Kohonen self-organizing maps through digital programming.  The analog memory and adaptive element of the LVQ cell comprise 6 MOS transistors and one capacitor, and provide for robust selfrefresh of the dynamic analog storage.  Total cell size including distance and adaptive computations is 80 70 lambda in scalable MOSIS technology.  Experimental results from a fabricated 16 16 cell prototype in 2 # m CMOS are included. 
Stochastic Mixed-Signal VLSI Architecture for High-Dimensional Kernel Machines| Abstract A mixed-signal paradigm is presented for high-resolution parallel innerproduct computation in very high dimensions, suitable for efficient implementation of kernels in image processing.  At the core of the externally digital architecture is a high-density, low-power analog array performing binary-binary partial matrix-vector multiplication.  Full digital resolution is maintained even with low-resolution analog-to-digital conversion, owing to random statistics in the analog summation of binary products.  A random modulation scheme produces near-Bernoulli statistics even for highly correlated inputs.  The approach is validated with real image data, and with experimental results from a CID/DRAM analog array prototype in 0. 5 m CMOS. 
Adaptive Digital Correction of Analog Errors in MASH ADC's---Part I: Off-Line and Blind On-Line Calibration| Abstract---Cascaded delta--sigma (MASH) modulators for higher order oversampled analog-to-digital conversion rely on precise matching of contributions from different quantizers to cancel lower order quantization noise from intermediate delta--sigma stages.  This first part of the paper studies the effect of analog imperfections in the implementation, such as finite gain of the amplifiers and capacitor ratio mismatch, and presents algorithms and architectures for digital correction of such analog imperfections, as well as gain and spectral distortion in the signal transfer function.  Digital correction is implemented by linear finite-impulse response (FIR) filters, of which the coefficients are determined through adaptive off-line or on-line calibration.  Of particular interest is an on-line "blind" calibration technique, that uses no reference and operates directly on the digital output during conversion, with the only requirement on the unknown input signal that its spectrum be bandlimited.  Behavioral simulations on dual-quantization oversampled converters demonstrate near-perfect adaptive correction and significant improvements in signal-to-quantization-noise performance over the uncalibrated case, using as few as 5 FIR coefficients.  An alternative on-line adaptation technique using test signal injection and experimental results from silicon are presented in the second part, in a companion paper [1]. 
MIXED-MODE VLSI IMPLEMENTATION OF FUZZY ART| ABSTRACT We present an asynchronous mixed analog-digital VLSI architecture which implements the Fuzzy Adaptive Resonance Theory (Fuzzy-ART) algorithm.  Both classification and learning are performed on-chip in real-time.  Unique features of our implementation include: an embedded refresh mechanism to overcome memory drift due to charge leakage from volatile capacitive storage; and a recoding mechanism to eliminate and reassign inactive categories.  A small scale ### ### m feature size CMOS prototype with 4 inputs and 8 output categories has been designed and fabricated.  The unit cell which performs the fuzzy min and learning operations measures 100 # m by 45 # m.  Experimental results are included to illustrate performance of the unit cell. 
HETEROGENEOUS INTEGRATION OF BIOMIMETIC ACOUSTIC MICROSYSTEMS| ABSTRACT We discuss biologically inspired devices and architectures for acoustic processing microsystems.  We exploit state of the art integrated microsytems technologies to heterogeneously integrate electronics and micromechanical structures for acoustic sensing and signal processing. 
GRADIENT FLOW BROADBAND BEAMFORMING AND SOURCE SEPARATION| ABSTRACT We present and demonstrate a method for blind separation and bearing estimation of broadband traveling waves, impinging on a sensor array with dimensions smaller than the shortest wavelength in the sources.  By sensing spatial and temporal gradients of the received signal, the problem of separating mixtures of time-delayed sources reduces to that of separating instantaneous mixtures of the gradient components of the sources using conventional tools of independent component analysis.  Experimental results demonstrate real-world separation of speech in outdoors and indoors environments, using a planar array of four microphones within a 5 mm radius and analog circuits computing spatial and temporal derivatives. 
BLIND BROADBAND SOURCE LOCALIZATION AND SEPARATION IN MINIATURE SENSOR ARRAYS| ABSTRACT We study the ability of a sensor array to blindly separate and localize broadband traveling waves impinging on the array, with additive sensor noise.  We consider arrays smaller than the shortest wavelength in the sources, such as MEMS acoustic arrays or VLSI arrays of RF receivers.  A series expansion about the center of the array of the time-delayed signals emanating from the sources reduces the problem of separating and localizing the delayed sources to that of separating instantaneous signal mixtures using conventional tools of Independent Component Analysis.  The covariance of the noise in the estimated sources is expressed in terms of the covariance of the sensor noise and the angular direction of the sources.  Physical simulations demonstrate separation and localization of three non-coplanar speech sources using a planar array of four sensors within a 1 mm radius. 
THREE-DECADE PROGRAMMABLE FULLY DIFFERENTIAL LINEAR OTA| ABSTRACT Acoustic and sonar analog signal processing applications require design of operational transconductance amplifiers (OTAs) that can be configured over wide frequency range in multiple bands and yet achieve low power consumption and low harmonic distortion.  A fully differential, linear OTA is presented with digitally programmable transconductance ranging over three decades of dynamic range.  Measurements from a prototype fabricated in a ### ### m CMOS process demonstrate a 0. 4 nA/V to 0. 8 # A/V transconductance range, 40 dB common-mode rejection ratio (CMRR), and -48 dB third-order harmonic distortion, at 12 # W power dissipation. 
ALGORITHMIC PARTIAL ANALOG-TO-DIGITAL CONVERSION IN MIXED-SIGNAL ARRAY PROCESSORS| ABSTRACT We present an algorithmic analog-to-digital converter (ADC) architecture for large-scale parallel quantization of internally analog variables in externally digital array processors.  The converter quantizes and accumulates a binary weighted sequence of partial binary-binary matrix-vector products computed on the analog array, under presentation of bit-serial inputs in descending binary order.  The architecture combines algorithmic conversion of the residue, as in a standard algorithmic ADC, with synchronous accumulation of the partial products from the array.  In conjunction with row-parallel digital storage of matrix elements in the array, two pipelined architectures are presented to accumulate partial products with common binary weight across rows: row-parallel ADC with digital post-accumulation, and row-cumulative ADC with analog pre-accumulation.  Simulation results are presented to quantify the trade-off in precision and area for full-parallel flash, and row-parallel and row-cumulative partial algorithmic, analogto-digital conversion on the array. 
Silicon Support Vector Machine with On-Line Learning| Training of support vector machines (SVMs) amounts to solving a quadratic programming problem over the training data.  We present a simple on-line SVM training algorithm of complexity approximately linear in the number of training vectors, and linear in the number of support vectors.  The algorithm implements an on-line variant of sequential minimum optimization (SMO) that avoids the need for adjusting select pairs of training coefficients by adjusting the bias term along with the coefficient of the currently presented training vector.  The coefficient assignment is a function of the margin returned by the SVM classifier prior to assignment, subject to inequality constraints.  The training scheme lends efficiently to dedicated SVM hardware for real-time pattern recognition, implemented using resources already provided for run-time operation.  Performance gains are illustrated using the Kerneltron, a massively parallel mixed-signal VLSI processor for kernel-based real-time video recognition. 
Dynamic MOS Sigmoid Array Folding Analog-to-Digital Conversion| Abstract---A dynamic, saturating difference circuit for large-scale parallel folding analog-to-digital conversion is presented.  The circuit comprises a subthreshold nMOS transistor source-coupled to a capacitor, implementing a log-domain integrator.  The output current is a logistic sigmoidal function of the change in voltage on the gate.  Offset and gain of the differential sigmoid are controlled by timing of global clock signals and are independent of transistor mismatch.  Folding operation for analog-to-digital conversion is obtained by differentially combining and integrating currents from a bank of sigmoid units.  A 128-channel parallel bank of 4-bit Gray-code folding analog-to-digital converters measures 0. 75 mm 2 mm in 0. 5 m CMOS and delivers 768 Msps at 82-mW power dissipation. 
SEQUENCE ESTIMATION AND CHANNEL EQUALIZATION USING FORWARD DECODING KERNEL MACHINES| ABSTRACT A forward decoding approach to kernel machine learning is presented.  The method combines concepts from Markovian dynamics, large margin classifiers and reproducing kernels for robust sequence detection by learning inter-data dependencies.  A MAP (maximum a posteriori) sequence estimator is obtained by regressing transition probabilities between symbols as a function of received data.  The training procedure involves maximizing a lower bound of a regularized cross-entropy on the posterior probabilities, which simplifies into direct estimation of transition probabilities using kernel logistic regression.  Applied to channel equalization, forward decoding kernel machines outperform support vector machines and other techniques by about 5dB in SNR for given BER, within 1dB of theoretical limits. 
CHARGE-BASED MOS CORRELATED DOUBLE SAMPLING COMPARATOR AND FOLDING CIRCUIT| ABSTRACT A novel charge-based comparator and folding circuit are presented.  Correlated double sampling comparison is performed using a
MIXED-SIGNAL REAL-TIME ADAPTIVE BLIND SOURCE SEPARATION| ABSTRACT A mixed-signal adaptive VLSI architecture for real-time blind separation of linear source mixtures is presented.  The architecture is digitally reconfigurable and implements a general class of Independent Component Analysis (ICA) update rules in common outer-product form.  In conjunction with gradient flow, a technique for converting timedelayed mixtures of traveling wave sources into equivalent linear instantaneous mixtures by observing spatial and temporal derivatives of the field over a miniature array, the ICA architecture allows to separate and localize multiple acoustic sources in the acoustic scene.  Experimental results from VLSI implementation of the ICA architecture demonstrate 30 dB separation of two mixtures of two speech signals. 
ROBUST SPEECH FEATURE EXTRACTION BY GROWTH TRANSFORMATION IN REPRODUCING KERNEL HILBERT SPACE| ABSTRACT A robust speech feature extraction procedure, by kernel regression nonlinear predictive coding, is presented.  Features maximally insensitive to additive noise are obtained by growth transformation of regression functions spanning a Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Space (RKHS).  Experiments on TI-DIGIT demonstrate consistent robustness of the new features to noise of varying statistics, yielding significant improvements in digit recognition accuracy over identical models trained using Mel-scale cepstral features and evaluated at noise levels between 0 and 30 dB SNR. 
Spike Timing-Dependent Plasticity in the Address Domain| Abstract Address-event representation (AER), originally proposed as a means to communicate sparse neural events between neuromorphic chips, has proven efficient in implementing large-scale networks with arbitrary, configurable synaptic connectivity.  In this work, we further extend the functionality of AER to implement arbitrary, configurable synaptic plasticity in the address domain.  As proof of concept, we implement a biologically inspired form of spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) based on relative timing of events in an AER framework.  Experimental results from an analog VLSI integrate-and-fire network demonstrate address domain learning in a task that requires neurons to group correlated inputs. 
Floating-Gate Adaptation for Focal-Plane Online Nonuniformity Correction| Abstract---Stochastic adaptive algorithms are investigated for online correction of spatial nonuniformity in random-access addressable imaging systems.  The adaptive architecture is implemented in analog VLSI, integrated with the photosensors on the focal plane.  Random sequences of address locations selected with controlled statistics are used to adaptively equalize the intensity distribution at variable spatial scales.  Through a logarithm transformation of system variables, adaptive gain correction is achieved through offset correction in the log-domain.  This idea is particularly attractive for compact implementation using translinear floating-gate MOS circuits.  Furthermore, the same architecture and random addressing provide for oversampled binary encoding of the image with equalized intensity histogram.  The techniques apply to a variety of solid-state imagers, such as artificial retinas, active pixel sensors, and IR sensor arrays.  Experimental results confirm gain correction and histogram equalization in a 64 64 pixel adaptive array integrated on a 2. 2-mm 2. 25-mm chip in 1. 2- m CMOS technology. 
16-CHANNEL WIDE-RANGE VLSI POTENTIOSTAT ARRAY| ABSTRACT A 16-Channel current-measuring VLSI sensor array system for electrochemical detection of electroactive neurotransmiters like dopamine and nitric-oxide is presented.  The designed ADC architecture is first-order single bit delta-sigma modulator with programmable oversampling ratio.  The modulation of feedback duty-cycle in modulator design enables choice of current range in accordance to magnitude and time constant of signal leading to current range that spans over six orders of magnitude and sensitivity up to picoamperes at hundred millisecond conversion time with power consumption of 300 W.  A 3mm x 3mm chip in 0. 5 m CMOS technology is used for real-time multi-channel acquisition of neurotransmitter concentration. 
GRADIENT FLOW BEARING ESTIMATION WITH BLIND IDENTIFICATION OF NON-STATIONARY SIGNAL AND INTERFERENCE| ABSTRACT We present a technique for reliably estimating the 3-D direction cosines of a broadband traveling wave impinging on an array of four sensors of dimensions smaller than the shortest wavelength in the source.  Gradient flow converts observed mixtures of delayed source signals into instantaneous linear mixtures of their temporal derivatives through observation of spatial gradients of the field.  This formulation is equivalent to independent component analysis (ICA), where the mixing matrix directly yields the direction cosines.  Experiments with acoustic data from a microphone array show improved bearing accuracy through second order blind identification (SOBI) of non-stationary noise from interfering sources, along with the signal. 
SILICON SPIKE-BASED SYNAPTIC ARRAY AND ADDRESS-EVENT TRANSCEIVER| ABSTRACT An integrated array of 2,400 spiking silicon neurons, with reconfigurable synaptic connectivity and adjustable neural spike-based dynamics, is presented.  At the system level, the chip serves as an address-event transceiver, with incoming and outgoing spikes communicated over an asynchronous event-driven bus.  Internally, every cell implements a spiking neuron that models general principles of synaptic operation as observed in biological membranes.  Synaptic conductance and synaptic reversal potential can be dynamically modulated for each event.  The implementation employs mixed-signal charge-based circuits to facilitate digital control of system parameters and minimize variability due to transistor mismatch.  In addition to describing the structure of the silicon neurons, we present experimental data characterizing the operation of the 3mm 3mm chip fabricated in 0. 5m CMOS technology. 
BLIND SEPARATION OF LINEAR CONVOLUTIVE MIXTURES USING ORTHOGONAL FILTER BANKS| ABSTRACT We propose an algorithm and architecture for real-time blind source separation of linear convolutive mixtures using orthogonal filter banks.  The adaptive algorithm derives from stochastic gradient descent optimization of a performance metric that quantifies independence not only across the reconstructed sources, but also across time within each source.  The special case of a Laguerre section offers a compact representation with a small number of filter taps even under severe reverberant conditions, facilitating real-time implementation in a modular and scalable parallel architecture.  Simulations of the proposed architecture and update rule validate the approach. 
Auditory Feature Extraction Using Self-Timed, Continuous-Time Discrete-Signal Processing Circuits| Abstract---A compact integrated subsystem for accurate realtime measurement of level-crossing time-intervals, suitable for multiresolution feature extraction from an analog cochlear filter bank is presented.  The subsystem is inspired by the function of the inner hair cells in the mammalian cochlea and is based on continuous-time discrete-signal processing circuits.  Experimental results from a fabricated array of nine elements demonstrate instantaneous frequency-to-voltage conversion over a range covering the audio band.  The power consumption is less than 20 W per cell from a 5-V supply, when the system is biased to operate over the speech frequency range. 
Incremental and Decremental Support Vector Machine Learning| Abstract An on-line recursive algorithm for training support vector machines, one vector at a time, is presented.  Adiabatic increments retain the KuhnTucker conditions on all previously seen training data, in a number of steps each computed analytically.  The incremental procedure is reversible, and decremental "unlearning" offers an efficient method to exactly evaluate leave-one-out generalization performance.  Interpretation of decremental unlearning in feature space sheds light on the relationship between generalization and geometry of the data. 
GRADIENT FLOW ADAPTIVE BEAMFORMING AND SIGNAL SEPARATION IN A MINIATURE MICROPHONE ARRAY| ABSTRACT Gradient flow converts the problem of separating unknown delayed mixtures of sources, from traveling waves impinging on an array of sensors, into a simpler problem of separating unknown instantaneous mixtures of the time-differentiated sources, obtained by acquiring or computing spatial and temporal derivatives on the array.  The linear coefficients in the instantaneous mixture directly represent the delays, which in turn determine the direction angles of the sources.  This formulation is attractive, since it allows to separate and localize waves of broadband signals using standard tools of independent component analysis (ICA), yielding the sources along with their direction angles.  The technique is suited for arrays of small aperture, with dimensions shorter than the coherence length of the waves.  We present gradient flow experiments on an array of four hearing aid microphones placed within a 5 mm radius, yielding 20 dB separation of joint speech in outdoors acoustic environments, and 10 dB separation indoors under mild reverberant conditions.  These results suggest applications of gradient flow miniature microphone arrays to intelligent hearing aids with adaptive suppression of interfering signals and nonstationary noise. 
An Analog VLSI Chip with Asynchronous Interface for Auditory Feature Extraction| Abstract--- We describe the architecture and circuit implementation of an analog VLSI feature extraction chip that has an asynchronous digital interface and is designed to serve as an auditory based front-end for a digit recognition system.  The single chip system encodes signal energies and level crossing time intervals of frequency components in a cochlear filter bank.  The chip has been fabricated in a 1. 2 m n-well, double polysilicon double metal CMOS process and it is fully functional.  Power consumption when operated from 5 Volt supply is only a few milliwatts. 
Image Sharpness and Beam Focus VLSI Sensors for Adaptive Optics| Abstract---High-resolution wavefront control for adaptive optics requires accurate sensing of a measure of optical quality.  We present two analog very-large-scale-integration (VLSI) image-plane sensors that supply real-time metrics of image and beam quality, for applications in imaging and line-of-sight laser communication.  The image metric VLSI sensor quantifies sharpness of the received image in terms of average rectified spatial gradients.  The beam metric VLSI sensor returns first and second order spatial moments of the received laser beam to quantify centroid and width.  Closed-loop wavefront control of a laser beam through turbulence is demonstrated using a spatial phase modulator and analog VLSI controller that performs stochastic parallel gradient descent of the beam width metric. 
SVM Incremental Learning, Adaptation and Optimization| Abstract--- The objective of machine learning is to identify a model that yields good generalization performance.  This involves repeatedly selecting a hypothesis class, searching the hypothesis class by minimizing a given objective function over the model's parameter space, and evaluating the generalization performance of the resulting model.  This search can be computationally intensive as training data continuously arrives, or as one needs to tune hyperparameters in the hypothesis class and the objective function.  In this paper, we present a framework for exact incremental learning and adaptation of support vector machine (SVM) classifiers.  The approach is general and allows one to learn and unlearn individual or multiple examples, adapt the current SVM to changes in regularization and kernel parameters, and evaluate generalization performance through exact leave-one-out error estimation. 
Neuromorphic Learning VLSI Systems: A Survey| Abstract This [chapter] reviews advances in hardware learning and adaptation in synthetic neural systems.  Over the last decade, researchinthe field has intensified, drawing inspiration across several science and engineering disciplines.  This review briefly covers neural models, implementationtechnology,architectural constraints, and system applications of learning in hardware. 
Saliency-Driven Image Acuity Modulation on a Reconfigurable Silicon Array of Spiking Neurons| Abstract We have constructed a system that uses an array of 9,600 spiking silicon neurons, a fast microcontroller, and digital memory, to implement a reconfigurable network of integrate-and-fire neurons.  The system is designed for rapid prototyping of spiking neural networks that require high-throughput communication with external address-event hardware.  Arbitrary network topologies can be implemented by selectively routing address-events to specific internal or external targets according to a memory-based projective field mapping.  The utility and versatility of the system is demonstrated by configuring it as a three-stage network that accepts input from an address-event imager, detects salient regions of the image, and performs spatial acuity modulation around a high-resolution fovea that is centered on the location of highest salience. 
Forward Decoding Kernel Machines: A Hybrid HMM/SVM Approach to Sequence Recognition|
A Fast Stochastic Error-Descent Algorithm for Supervised Learning and Optimization|
A Charge-Based Parallel Analog Vector Quantizer|
Analog VLSI autonomous Systems for Learning and Optimization",|
A Learning Parallel Analog-To-Digital Vector Quantizer|
Analog VLSI Processor Implementing the Continuous Wavelet Transform|
Editor| "Learning on Silicon: A Survey,. 
