Orientation-Selective aVLSI Spiking Neurons| Abstract We describe a programmable multi-chip VLSI neuronal system that can be used for exploring spike-based information processing models.  The system consists of a silicon retina, a PIC microcontroller, and a transceiver chip whose integrate-and-fire neurons are connected in a soft winner-take-all architecture.  The circuit on this multi-neuron chip approximates a cortical microcircuit.  The neurons can be configured for different computational properties by the virtual connections of a selected set of pixels on the silicon retina.  The virtual wiring between the different chips is effected by an event-driven communication protocol that uses asynchronous digital pulses, similar to spikes in a neuronal system.  We used the multi-chip spike-based system to synthesize orientation-tuned neurons using both a feedforward model and a feedback model.  The performance of our analog hardware spiking model matched the experimental observations and digital simulations of continuous-valued neurons.  The multi-chip VLSI system has advantages over computer neuronal models in that it is real-time, and the computational time does not scale with the size of the neuronal network. 
Parallel analog VLSI architectures for computation of heading direction and time-to-contact| Abstract We describe two parallel analog VLSI architectures that integrate optical flow data obtained from arrays of elementary velocity sensors to estimate heading direction and time-to-contact.  For heading direction computation, we performed simulations to evaluate the most important qualitative properties of the optical flow field and determine the best functional operators for the implementation of the architecture.  For time-to-contact we exploited the divergence theorem to integrate data from all velocity sensors present in the architecture and average out possible errors. 
A Current-Mode Hysteretic Winner-take-all Network, with Excitatory and Inhibitory Coupling| Abstract.  Winner-take-all (WTA) circuits are commonly used in a wide variety of applications.  One of the most used current-mode WTA designs is the one originally proposed by Lazzaro et al.  [1].  Several extensions to this design have been suggested in the past.  In this paper we present a variant of this current-mode WTA circuit, containing all of the enhancements previously proposed, together with new additional modifications that endow it with interesting hysteretic and lateral inhibition and excitation properties.  We compare the performance of this WTA circuit to the original WTA design, providing experimental data obtained from a VLSI chip containing both types of circuits, designed using closely matched layouts.  We derive analytically the response properties of the circuit's lateral diffusion network, pointing out the differences to previously proposed diffusion networks, and present experimental data confirming the theoretical predictions.  We also describe application domains that can best exploit these types of hysteretic WTA circuits. 
A 2D Neuromorphic VLSI Architecture for Modeling Selective Attention| Abstract Selective attention is mechanisms used sequentially select the spatial locations salient regions in the sensor's field view.  This mechanism overcomes the problem of flooding limited processing capacity systems with sensory information.  found in many biological sensory systems and can useful engineering tool for artificial visual systems.  We present a hardware model of a selective attention mechanism implemented on a VLSI chip, using analog neuromorphic circuits.  The chip makes use of a spike based representation for receiving input signals, transmitting output signals and for shifting the selection of the attended input stimulus over time.  The chip can be interfaced neuromorphic sensors and actuators, for implementing multi-chip selective attention systems.  We describe the characteristics of the circuits used the architecture, and present experimental data measured from the system. 
System Implementations of Analog VLSI Velocity Sensors| Abstract We present three different architectures that make use of analog VLSI velocity sensors for detecting the focus of expansion, time to contact and motion discontinuities respectively.  For each of the architectures proposed we describe the functionality of their component modules and their principles of operation.  Data measurements obtained from the VLSI chips developed demonstrate their correct performance and their limits of operation. 
A Neuromorphic VLSI Device for Implementing 2-D Selective Attention Systems| Abstract---Selective attention is a mechanism used to sequentially select and process salient subregions the input space, while suppressing inputs arriving from nonsalient regions.  By processing small amounts of sensory information serial fashion, rather than attempting to process all the sensory data in parallel, this mechanism overcomes the problem flooding limited processing capacity systems with sensory inputs.  It is found in many biological systems and can useful engineering tool for developing artificial systems that need to process in real-time sensory data.  In this paper we present neuromorphic hardware model of a selective attention mechanism implemented on very large scale integration (VLSI) chip, using analog circuits.  The chip makes use of spike-based representation for receiving input signals, transmitting output signals and for shifting the selection of the attended input stimulus over time.  It can be interfaced to neuromorphic sensors and actuators, for implementing multichip selective attention systems.  We describe the characteristics the circuits used in the architecture and present experimental data measured from the system. 
Neuromorphic Bistable VLSI Synapses with Spike-Timing-Dependent Plasticity| Abstract We present analog neuromorphic circuits for implementing bistable synapses with spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) properties.  In these types of synapses, the short-term dynamics of the synaptic efficacies are governed by the relative timing of the pre- and post-synaptic spikes, while on long time scales the efficacies tend asymptotically to either a potentiated state or to a depressed one.  We fabricated a prototype VLSI chip containing a network of integrate and fire neurons interconnected via bistable STDP synapses.  Test results from this chip demonstrate the synapse's STDP learning properties, and its long-term bistable characteristics. 
Analog VLSI Model of Locust DCMD Neuron Response for Computation of Object Approach| In this paper, we present an analog VLSI (aVLSI) architecture that implements a functional model of the locust descending contralateral movement detector (DCMD) neuron, based on recently published results.  We describe its architecture and analog circuits that implement its critical computational modules.  We also provide an analytical closed-form solution for some of the circuits proposed and verify the validity of our analysis both through circuit simulations and experimental data obtained from an aVLSI test chip.  This work shows that the circuits here proposed can be used to build hardware devices to model DCMD response curves.  Having complete control over the hardware system, neurophysiologists would then be able to measure in real time properties of looming stimuli and outcome of the neuromorphic model, while simultaneously performing the experiment on the real biological system. 
Autonomous Vehicle Guidance Using Analog VLSI Neuromorphic Sensors| Abstract.  Analog VLSI circuits implementing aspects of biological systems are attractive for the construction of compact low-power autonomous systems.  We describe such a system, consisting of a mobile robot equipped with a neuromorphic sensor implementing a one dimensional silicon retina.  Specifically, we demonstrate how the real-time visual pre-processing capabilities of the neuromorphic sensor are instrumental in enabling the system to reliably and autonomously track a continuous edge.  We present data both from the neuromorphic sensor and from the overall system, performing a line tracking task. 
Silicon retina sensing guided by omni-directional vision| Abstract: A way of combining a relatively new sensor-technology, that is optical analog VLSI devices, with a standard digital omni-directional vision system is investigated.  The sensor used is a neuromorphic analog VLSI sensor that estimates the global visual image motion.  The sensor provides two analog output voltages that represent the components of the global optical flow vector.  The readout is guided by an omni-directional mirror that maps the location of the ball and directs the robot to align its position so that a sensor-actuator module that includes the analog VLSI optical flow sensor can be activated.  The purpose of the sensoractuator module is to operate with a higher update rate than the standard vision system and thus increase the reactivity of the robot for very specific situations.  This paper will demonstrate an application example where the robot is a goalkeeper with the task of defending the goal during a penalty kick. 
Analog VLSI motion projects at Caltech| ABSTRACT We present different compact analog VLSI motion sensors that compute the 1-D velocity of optical stimuli over a large range and are suitable for integration in focal plane arrays.  They have been extensively tested and optimized for robust performance under varying light conditions.  Since their output signals are only weakly dependent on contrast, they directly extract optical flow data from an image.  Focal plane arrays of such sensors are particularly interesting for application in single-chip systems that perform navigation tasks for moving robots or vehicles, where light weight, low power consumption, and real-time processing are crucial.  Several monolithic motion-processing systems based on such velocity sensors have been built and tested.  We describe here three chips, designed for the determination of the focus of expansion, the estimation of the time to contact, and the detection of motion discontinuities respectively.  The first two systems have been specifically designed for vehicle navigation tasks.  The choice of this application domain allows to make a priori assumptions about the optical flow field that simplifies the structure of the systems and improves their overall performance.  The motion-discontinuity-detection system can be more generally used to segment images based on the velocities of its different domains with respect to the camera.  It is particularly useful for background-foreground segregation in the case of ego-motion of an autonomous system in a static environment.  Test results of the three systems are presented and their performance is evaluated. 
A software--hardware selective attention system| Abstract Selective attention is a biological mechanism to process salient subregions ofthe sensory input space, while suppressing non-salient inputs.  We present a hardware selective attention system, implemented using a neuromorphic VLSI chip interfaced to a workstation, via a custom PCI board and based on an address event (spike based) representation ofsignals.  The chip selects salient inputs and sequentially shifts from one salient input to the other.  The PCI board acts as an interface between the chip and an algorithm that generates saliency maps.  We present experimental data showing the system's response to saliency maps generated from natural scenes. 
Active Vision Using an Analog VLSI Model of Selective Attention| Abstract---Detailed processing of sensory information is a computationally demanding task.  This is especially true for vision, where the amount of information provided by the sensors typically exceeds the processing capacity of the system.  Rather than attempting to process all the sensory data simultaneously, an effective strategy is to focus on subregions of the input space, shifting from one subregion to the other, in a serial fashion.  This strategy is commonly referred to as selective attention.  We present a neuromorphic active-vision system, that implements a saliency-based model of selective attention.  Visual data is sensed and preprocessed in parallel by a transient imager chip and transmitted to a selective-attention chip.  This chip sequentially selects the spatial locations of salient regions in the vision sensor's field of view.  A host computer uses the output of the selective-attention chip to drive the motors on which the imager is mounted, and to orient it toward the selected regions.  The system's design framework is modular and allows the integration of multiple sensors and multiple selective-attention chips.  We present experimental results showing the performance of a two-chip system in response to well--controlled test stimuli and to natural stimuli. 
AN EVENT--BASED VLSI NETWORK OF INTEGRATE--AND--FIRE NEURONS| ABSTRACT The growing interest in pulse--based neural networks is encouraging the development of hardware implementations of massively parallel, distributed networks of Integrate--and-Fire (I&F) neurons.  We have developed a mixed--mode (analog/digital) VLSI device that comprises a reconfigurable network of I&F neurons and adaptive synapses.  The synapses receive input spikes and the neurons transmit output spikes (events) using an asynchronous Address--Event Representation (AER).  In this paper we describe the network architecture, present experimental data demonstrating the characteristics of the single elements on the chip, and show that a competitive network configuration has Winner--Take--All (WTA) behavior and produces spike synchronization. 
Circuits for bistable spike-timing-dependent plasticity neuromorphic VLSI synapses| Abstract We present analog neuromorphic circuits for implementing bistable synapses with spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) properties.  In these types of synapses, the short-term dynamics of the synaptic efficacies are governed by the relative timing of the pre- and post-synaptic spikes, while on long time scales the efficacies tend asymptotically to either a potentiated state or to a depressed one.  Test results from a prototype VLSI chip, containing a learning synapse connected to a pre- and post-synaptic integrate and fire neuron, demonstrate the synapse's STDP learning properties, and its long-term bistable characteristics. 
A VLSI reconfigurable network of integrate--and--fire neurons with spike--based learning synapses| Abstract.  We present a VLSI device comprising an array of leaky integrate--and-fire (I&F) neurons and adaptive synapses with spike--timing dependent plasticity (STDP).  The neurons transmit spikes off chip and the synapses receive spikes from external devices using a communication protocol based on the "Address-Event Representation" (AER).  We studied the response properties of the neurons in the array to uniform input currents, and measured their AER outputs.  We characterized the properties of the STDP synapses using AER input spike trains.  Our results indicate that these circuits can be reliably used in massively parallel VLSI networks of I&F neurons to simulate real--time complex spike--based learning algorithms. 
NEUROMORPHIC SELECTIVE ATTENTION SYSTEMS| ABSTRACT Selective attention mechanisms allow sensory systems with limited processing capacity to function in real time independent of the size of the stimulus input space.  They can be particularly useful in vision systems, where the amount of information provided by the sensors typically exceeds the system's processing capacity.  We present circuits for implementing models of selective attention mechanisms and show application examples, ranging from single chip focal plane processors to active multi chip vision systems, that perform active tracking and selective scanning tasks. 
Neuromorphic Analog VLSI Sensor for Visual Tracking: Circuits and Application Examples| Abstract---This paper presents a one-dimensional visual sensor, implemented on a single VLSI chip using analog neuromorphic circuits, for selectively detecting and tracking the position of the feature with the highest spatial contrast present in the visual scene.  The chip's photoreceptors adapt to stationary backgrounds and can be tuned to respond maximally to specific target velocities.  The sensor drastically reduces the amount of data to be transmitted to further processing stages by encoding, in real time, the position of the target in the form of a single continuous-time analog variable.  We describe the circuits implementing the sensor and show applications to three examples of tracking tasks: a stand-alone visual tracking system, an active fully analog tracking system, and a mobile platform line-following system. 
AN ADAPTIVE SILICON SYNAPSE| ABSTRACT We present an analog circuit for implementing models of synapses with short--term adaptation, derive analytical solutions for spiking input signals, and present experimental results measured from a chip fabricated using a standard 1. 5m CMOS technology.  The circuit is suitable for integration in large arrays of integrate--and--fire neurons and consequently for evaluating computational roles of short-term adaptation at the network level. 
AN ADAPTIVE VISUAL TRACKING SENSOR WITH A HYSTERETIC WINNER-TAKE-ALL NETWORK| ABSTRACT We present a CMOS VLSI image sensor containing a 26 26 array of differentiating adaptive photoreceptors, combined with a current-mode hysteretic winner-take-all (WTA) network, able to detect and track high-contrast targets moving within its field of view.  The device, implemented using standard 0. 8 m CMOS technology, dissipates 600 W, with a power supply voltage of 5 V.  Its WTA outputs can be read out using either analog position-to-voltage circuits, or digital address encoders.  Photoreceptor voltages with sustained and transient responses, can be read out serially, using an on-chip scanner, or in a random-access mode, using address decoders.  Combining digital output position encoders and input address decoders it is possible to read only the location of the winning pixel, or a small window around the winning pixel (e. g.  using a microcontroller), thus implementing a selective attention read-out mechanism. 
A Neural Network Architecture for Defect Detection through Magnetic Particle Inspection| Abstract In this paper we present a neural network for vertical feature recognition applied to structural defect detection in ferromagnetic materials.  The network receives
A Reconfigurable Neuromorphic VLSI Multi-Chip System Applied to Visual Motion Computation| Abstract We present a multi-chip neuromorphic system in which an Address Event Representation is used for inter-chip communication.  The system comprises an analog VLSI transient imager with adaptive photoreceptors, an analog VLSI motion receiver chip and a prototyping communication infrastructure which allows for programmability of connections between the elements on the two chips.  We describe the properties of the two VLSI chips and of the communication infrastructure.  To characterize the whole system, we present examples of connectivity tables which allow it to compute translational motion and expanding motion and show data from the transient detector array and motion receiver chips. 
Modeling Selective Attention Using a Neuromorphic Analog VLSI Device| Attentional mechanisms are required to overcome the problem of ooding a limited processing capacity system with information.  They are present in biological sensory systems and can be a useful engineering tool for articial visual systems.  In this article we present a hardware model of a selective attention mechanism implemented on a very largescale integration (VLSI) chip, using analog neuromorphic circuits.  The chip exploits a spike-based representation to receive, process, and transmit signals.  It can be used as a transceiver module for building multichip neuromorphic vision systems.  We describe the circuits that carry out the main processing stages of the selective attention mechanism and provide experimental data for each circuit.  We demonstrate the expected behavior of the model at the system level by stimulating the chip with both articially generated control signals and signals obtained from a saliency map, computed from an image containing several salient features. 
GMD-Musashi| 5 University of Lecce, Italy e-mail: bredenfeld@ais. fraunhofer. de
Neuromorphic vision sensors and preprocessors in system applications| ABSTRACT A partial review of neuromorphic vision sensors that are suitable for use in autonomous systems is presented.  Interfaces are being developed to multiplex the high-dimensional output signals of arrays of such sensors and to communicate them in standard formats to off-chip devices for higher-level processing, actuation, storage and display.  Alternatively, on-chip processing stages may be implemented to extract sparse image parameters, thereby obviating the need for multiplexing.  Autonomous robots are used to test neuromorphic vision chips in real-world environments and to explore the possibilities of data fusion from different sensing modalities.  Examples of autonomous mobile systems that use neuromorphic vision chips for line tracking and optical flow matching are described. 
A LOW-POWER ADAPTIVE INTEGRATE-AND-FIRE NEURON CIRCUIT| ABSTRACT We present a low-power analog circuit for implementing a model of a leaky integrate and fire neuron.  Next to being optimized for low-power consumption, the proposed circuit includes elements for implementing spike frequency adaptation, for setting an arbitrary refractory period and for modulating the neuron's threshold voltage.  We present experimental data from a prototype chip, implemented using a standard 1. 5m CMOS process. 
Analog VLSI Architectures for Motion Processing: From Fundamental Limits to System Applications| Abstract: We discuss some of the fundamental issues in the design of highly-parallel, dense, low-power motion sensors in analog VLSI.  Since photoreceptor circuits are an integral part of all visual motion sensors, we discuss how the sizing of photosensitive areas can affect the performance of such systems.  We review the classic gradient and correlation algorithms and give a survey of analog motion-sensing architectures inspired by them.  We calculate how the measurable speed range scales with signal-tonoise ratio for a classic Reichardt sensor with a fixed time constant.  We show how this speed range may be improved using a nonlinear filter with an adaptive time constant, constructed out of a diode and a capacitor, and present data from a velocity sensor based on such a filter.  Finally, we describe how arrays of such velocity sensors can be employed to compute the heading direction of a moving subject and to estimate the time-to-contact between the sensor and a moving object. 
Parallel analog VLSI architectures for computation of heading direction and time-to-contact| Abstract We describe two parallel analog VLSI architectures that integrate optical flow data obtained from arrays of elementary velocity sensors to estimate heading direction and time-to-contact.  For heading direction computation, we performed simulations to evaluate the most important qualitative properties of the optical flow field and determine the best functional operators for the implementation of the architecture.  For time-to-contact we exploited the divergence theorem to integrate data from all velocity sensors present in the architecture and average out possible errors. 
Analog VLSI Architecture for Computing Heading Direction| Measurements from the chips developed and software simulation results are provided to showthevalidity of the followed approach. 
Modeling and identification of open-frame variable configuration underwater vehicles|
Application of LS and EKF techniques to the identification of underwater vehicles|
Kinematic time-invariant control of a 2D nonholonomic vehicle, in:|
Modeling Selective Attention Using a Neuromorphic Analog VLSI Device|
Guest editorial - Special issue on neural networks hardware implementations",|
A neuromorphic architecture for cortical multilayer integration of early visual tasks|
A competitive network of spiking VLSI neurons|
Winner-take-all networks with lateral excitation,|
Autonomous vehicle guidance using analog VLSI neuromorphic sensors|
A current-mode analog hysteretic winner-take-all network, with excitatory and inhibitory coupling,|
New technologies for testing a model of cricket phonotaxis on an outdoor robot platform|
Neuromorphic Vision Sensors|
Motion Adaptive Image Sensor for Enhancement and Wide Dynamic Range,|
