Regret Minimization Under Partial Monitoring| Abstract We consider repeated games in which the player, instead of observing the action chosen by the opponent in each game round, receives a feedback generated by the combined choice of the two players.  We study Hannan consistent players for these games, that is, randomized playing strategies whose per-round regret vanishes with probability one as the number n of game rounds goes to infinity.  We prove a general lower bound of #(n- 1/3 ) for the convergence rate of the regret, and exhibit a specific strategy that attains this rate for any game for which a Hannan consistent player exists. 
Minimizing Regret with Label Efficient Prediction| Abstract--- We investigate label efficient prediction, a variant, proposed by Helmbold and Panizza, of the problem of prediction with expert advice.  In this variant the forecaster, after guessing the next element of the sequence to be predicted, does not observe its true value unless he asks for it, which he cannot do too often.  We determine matching upper and lower bounds for the best possible excess prediction error, with respect to the best possible constant predictor, when the number of allowed queries is fixed.  We also prove that Hannan consistency, a fundamental property in game-theoretic prediction models, can be achieved by a forecaster issuing a number of queries growing to infinity at a rate just slightly faster than logarithmic in the number of prediction rounds. 
Learning correlated equilibria in games with compact sets of strategies| Abstract Hart and Schmeidler's extension of correlated equilibrium to games with infinite sets of strategies is studied.  General properties of the set of correlated equilibria are described.  It is shown that, just like for finite games, if all players play according to an appropriate regret--minimizing strategy then the empirical frequencies of play converge to the set of correlated equilibria whenever the strategy sets are convex and compact. 
Internal Regret in On-Line Portfolio Selection|
Improved second-order bounds for prediction with expert advice|
