Inferring 3D Structure with a Statistical Image-Based Shape Model| Abstract We present an image-based approach to infer 3D structure parameters using a probabilistic "shape+structure" model.  The 3D shape of an object class is represented by sets of contours from silhouette views simultaneously observed from multiple calibrated cameras, while structural features of interest on the object are denoted by a number of 3D locations.  A prior density over the multi-view shape and corresponding structure is constructed with a mixture of probabilistic principal components analyzers.  Given a novel set of contours, we infer the unknown structure parameters from the new shape's Bayesian reconstruction.  Model matching and parameter inference are done entirely in the image domain and require no explicit 3D construction.  Our shape model enables accurate estimation of structure despite segmentation errors or missing views in the input silhouettes, and it works even with only a single input view.  Using a training set of thousands of pedestrian images generated from a synthetic model, we can accurately infer the 3D locations of 19 joints on the body based on observed silhouette contours from real images. 
Fast Pose Estimation with Parameter-Sensitive Hashing| m a s s a c h u s e t t s i n s t i t u t e o f t e c h n o l o g y , c a m b r i d g e , m a 0 2 1 3 9 u s a --- www.  a i .  m i t .  e d u m a s s a c hu s e t t s i n s t i t u t e o f t e c hno l o g y --- a r t i f i c i a l i n t e l l i g e n c e l a bo r a t o r y @ MIT Abstract Example-based methods are effective for parameter estimation problems when the underlying system is simple or the dimensionality of the input is low.  For complex and high-dimensional problems such as pose estimation, the number of required examples and the computational complexity rapidly becme prohibitively high.  We introduce a new algorithm that learns a set of hashing functions that efficiently index examples relevant to a particular estimation task.  Our algorithm extends a recently developed method for locality-sensitive hashing, which finds approximate neighbors in time sublinear in the number of examples.  This method depends critically on the choice of hash functions; we show how to find the set of hash functions that are optimally relevant to a particular estimation problem.  Experiments demonstrate that the resulting algorithm, which we call Parameter-Sensitive Hashing, can rapidly and accurately estimate the articulated pose of human figures from a large database of example images. 
Learning Silhouette Features for Control of Human Motion| Abstract We present a vision-based performance interface for controlling animated human characters.  The system combines information about the user's motion contained in silhouettes from several viewpoints with domain knowledge contained in a motion capture database to interactively produce a high quality animation.  Such an interactive system will be useful for authoring, teleconferencing, or as a control interface for a character in a game.  In our implementation, the user performs in front of three video cameras; the resulting silhouettes are used to estimate his orientation and body configuration based on a set of discriminative local features.  Those features are selected by a machine learning algorithm during a preprocessing step.  Sequences of motions that approximate the user's actions are extracted from the motion database and scaled in time to match the speed of the user's motion.  We use swing dancing, an example of complex human motion, to demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.  We compare the results obtained with our approach to those obtained with a set of global features, Hu moments, and to ground truth measurements from a motion capture system.  Figure 1: A dancing user drives the motion of two animated characters. 
Boosted Dyadic Kernel Discriminants| Abstract We introduce a novel learning algorithm for binary classification with hyperplane discriminants based on pairs of training points from opposite classes (dyadic hypercuts).  This algorithm is further extended to nonlinear discriminants using kernel functions satisfying Mercer's conditions.  An ensemble of simple dyadic hypercuts is learned incrementally by means of a con#dence-rated version of AdaBoost, which provides a sound strategy for searching through the finite set of hypercut hypotheses.  In experiments with real-world datasets from the UCI repository, the generalization performance of the hypercut classifiers was found to be comparable to that of SVMs and k-NN classifiers.  Furthermore, the computational cost of classification (at run time) was found to be similar to, or better than, that of SVM.  Similarly to SVMs, boosted dyadic kernel discriminants tend to maximize the margin (via AdaBoost).  In contrast to SVMs, however, we offer an on-line and incremental learning machine for building kernel discriminants whose complexity (number of kernel evaluations) can be directly controlled (traded off for accuracy). 
On Probabilistic Combination of Face and Gait Cues for Identification|
A Unified Learning Framework for Real Time Face Detection and Classification|
Integrated Face and Gait Recognition From Multiple Views|
Face Recognition from Long-Term Observations|
A Bayesian Approach to Image-Based Visual Hull Reconstruction|
Approximate nearest neighbors methods for learning and vision|
Face recognition from long-term observations, in:|
Smoothed Bootstrap and Statistical Data Cloning for Classifier Evaluation|
