Self-organized pattern formation: experimental dissection of motion detection and motion integration by variation of attentional spread| Abstract The formation of global motion patterns depends on the stimulus activation of local motion detectors as well as integrative excitatory and/or inhibitory interactions among the activated detectors.  The counterphase row-of-elements [Vis.  Res.  34 (1994) 1843] is an ideal stimulus for examining the relationship between the activational/energizing e6ect of the stimulus and interaction among the activated detectors.  This is because the formation of the alternative unidirectional and oscillatory motion patterns for this stimulus requires the stimulation of local motion detectors, but there is no information in the stimulus that specifies either of the patterns.  Their formation depends instead on the relative contributions of excitatory and inhibitory interactions to detector activation; the temporal patterns are self-organized.  Broadly spread attention a6ects motion integration by changing the balance of excitatory versus inhibitory interactions, increasing the perception of unidirectional compared with oscillatory motion.  (It likewise
Approaches to analysis of handwriting as a task of coordinating a redundant motor system| Abstract We consider problems of motor redundancy associated with handwriting using the framework of the uncontrolled manifold (UCM) hypothesis.  Recent studies of finger coordination during force production tasks have demonstrated that the UCM-hypothesis provides a fruitful framework for analysis of multi-finger actions.  In particular, it has been shown that during relatively fast force changes, finger force variance across trials is structured such that a time pattern of total moment produced by the fingers with respect to a point between the two most lateral fingers involved in the task is stabilized while the time pattern of total force may be destabilized.  The findings of selective moment stabilization have been interpreted as being conditioned by the experience with everyday motor tasks that commonly pose more strict requirements to stabilization of total moment than to stabilization of total force.  We discuss implications of these findings for certain features of handwriting seen in elderly, children, patients with neurological disorders, and forgers. 
Timing, Clocks, and Dynamical Systems| Theoretical and experimental issues for our understanding of the timing of motor acts are reviewed, contrasting stochastic and dynamic timing models.  It is argued that the theory of dynamical systems and, in particular, of limit cycle attractors, provides a unified framework within which these issues can be appreciated.  The strength of stochastic timing models in the domain of absolute timing is contrasted with the strength of dynamic timing models in the domain of relative timing, the unification of the two domains being currently under way.  It is further argued that accounts of timing must examine the interrelation between timing and other levels of processing involved in movement generation, in particular, the representation of spatial aspects of movement and the control of movement.  The emergence of discrete event structure in timing skills is discussed from a dynamical systems perspective.  Finally, the understanding of the timing structure of discrete movement is raised as a further challenge for future work. 
The uncontrolled manifold concept: Identifying control variables for a functional task|
"Heteroskedastic sample selection and developing-country wage equations,"|
Dynamical model for self-organized pattern formation|
Perceptual stability and the selective adaptation of perceived and unperceived motion|
A model of selforganized pattern formation|
