Identity Uncertainty and Citation Matching| Abstract Identity uncertainty is a pervasive problem in real-world data analysis.  It arises whenever objects are not labeled with unique identifiers or when those identifiers may not be perceived perfectly.  In such cases, two observations may or may not correspond to the same object.  In this paper, we consider the problem in the context of citation matching---the problem of deciding which citations correspond to the same publication.  Our approach is based on the use of a relational probability model to define a generative model for the domain, including models of author and title corruption and a probabilistic citation grammar.  Identity uncertainty is handled by extending standard models to incorporate probabilities over the possible mappings between terms in the language and objects in the domain.  Inference is based on Markov chain Monte Carlo, augmented with specific methods for generating efficient proposals when the domain contains many objects.  Results on several citation data sets show that the method outperforms current algorithms for citation matching.  The declarative, relational nature of the model also means that our algorithm can determine object characteristics such as author names by combining multiple citations of multiple papers. 
Approximate inference for first-order probabilistic languages| Abstract A new, general approach is described for approximate inference in first-order probabilistic languages, using Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) techniques in the space of concrete possible worlds underlying any given knowledge base.  The simplicity of the approach and its lazy construction of possible worlds make it possible to consider quite expressive languages.  In particular, we consider two extensions to the basic relational probability models (RPMs) defined by Koller and Pfeffer, both of which have caused difficulties for exact algorithms.  The first extension deals with uncertainty about relations among objects, where MCMC samples over relational structures.  The second extension deals with uncertainty about the identity of individuals, where MCMC samples over sets of equivalence classes of objects.  In both cases, we identify types of probability distributions that allow local decomposition of inference while encoding possible domains in a plausible way.  We apply our algorithms to simple examples and show that the MCMC approach scales well. 
Decayed MCMC Filtering| Abstract Filtering---estimating the state of a partially observable Markov process from a sequence of observations---is one of the most widely studied problems in control theory, AI, and computational statistics.  Exact computation of the posterior distribution is generally intractable for large discrete systems and for nonlinear continuous systems, so a good deal of effort has gone into developing robust approximation algorithms.  This paper describes a simple stochastic approximation algorithm for filtering called decayed MCMC.  The algorithm applies Markov chain Monte Carlo sampling to the space of state trajectories using a proposal distribution that favours flips of more recent state variables.  The formal analysis of the algorithm involves a generalization of standard coupling arguments for MCMC convergence.  We prove that for any ergodic underlying Markov process, the convergence time of decayed MCMC with inversepolynomial decay remains bounded as the length of the observation sequence grows.  We show experimentally that decayed MCMC is at least competitive with other approximation algorithms such as particle filtering. 
Tracking Many Objects with Many Sensors| Abstract Keeping track of multiple objects over time is a problem that arises in many real-world domains.  The problem is often complicated by noisy sensors and unpredictable dynamics.  Previous work by Huang and Russell, drawing on the data association literature, provided a probabilistic analysis and a threshold-based approximation algorithm for the case of multiple objects detected by two spatially separated sensors.  This paper analyses the case in which large numbers of sensors are involved.  We show that the approach taken by Huang and Russell, who used pairwise sensor-based appearance probabilities as the elementary probabilistic model, does not scale.  When more than two observations are made, the objects' intrinsic properties must be estimated.  These provide the necessary conditional independencies to allow a spatial decomposition of the global probability model.  We also replace Huang and Russell's threshold algorithm for object identification with a polynomial-time approximation scheme based on Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation.  Using sensor data from a freeway traffic simulation, we show that this allows accurate estimation of long-range origin/destination information even when the individual links in the sensor chain are highly unreliable. 
Tracking many objects with many sensors,|
Statistical visual language models for ink parsing|
Learning Probabilistic Relational Planning Rules|
Design of a collaborative planning system|
land, and Ya'acov Ritov| Tracking many objects with many sensors. 
