An Efficient Image Similarity Measure Based on Approximations of KL-Divergence Between Two Gaussian Mixtures| Abstract In this work we present two new methods for approximating the Kullback-Liebler (KL) divergence between two mixtures of Gaussians.  The first method is based on matching between the Gaussian elements of the two Gaussian mixture densities.  The second method is based on the unscented transform.  The proposed methods are utilized for image retrieval tasks.  Continuous probabilistic image modeling based on mixtures of Gaussians together with KL measure for image similarity, can be used for image retrieval tasks with remarkable performance.  The efficiency and the performance of the KL approximation methods proposed are demonstrated on both simulated data and real image data sets.  The experimental results indicate that our proposed approximations outperform previously suggested methods. 
Image Enhancement By Nonlinear Extrapolation in Frequency Space| Abstract---A technique for enhancing the perceptual sharpness of an image is described.  The enhancement algorithm augments the frequency content of the image using shape-invariant properties of edges across scale by using a nonlinearity that generates phasecoherent higher harmonics.  The procedure utilizes the Laplacian transform and the Laplacian pyramid image representation.  Results are presented depicting the power-spectra augmentation and the visual enhancement of several images.  Simplicity of computations and ease of implementation allow for real-time applications such as high-definition television (HDTV). 
Probabilistic Models for Generating, Modelling and Matching Image Categories| Abstract In this paper we present a probabilistic and continuous framework for supervised image category modelling and matching as well as unsupervised clustering of image space into image categories.  A generalized GMM-KL framework is described in which each image or image-set (category) is represented as a Gaussian mixture distribution and images (categories) are compared and matched via a probabilistic measure of similarity between distributions.  Image-tocategory matching is investigated and unsupervised clustering of a random image set into visually coherent image categories is demonstrated. 
MRI Inter-slice Reconstruction Using Super-Resolution| Abstract MRI reconstruction using super-resolution is presented and shown to improve spatial resolution in cases when spatially-selective RF pulses are used for localization.  In 2-D multislice MRI, the resolution in the slice direction is often lower than the in-plane resolution.  For certain diagnostic imaging applications, isotropic resolution is necessary but true 3-D acquisition methods are not practical.  In this case, if the imaging volume is acquired two or more times, with small spatial shifts between acquisitions, combination of the data sets using an iterative superresolution algorithm gives improved resolution and better edge definition in the slice-select direction.  Resolution augmentation in MRI is important for visualization and early diagnosis.  The method also improves the signal-to-noise efficiency of the data acquisition. 
Blobworld: Image Segmentation Using Expectation-Maximization and Its Application to Image Querying| Abstract Retrieving images from large and varied collections using image content as a key is a challenging and important problem.  We present a new image representation which provides a transformation from the raw pixel data to a small set of image regions which are coherent in color and texture.  This "Blobworld" representation is created by clustering pixels in a joint color-texture-position feature space.  The segmentation algorithm is fully automatic and has been run on a collection of 10,000 natural images.  We describe a system that uses the Blobworld representation to retrieve images from this collection.  An important aspect of the system is that the user is allowed to view the internal representation of the submitted image and the query results.  Similar systems do not offer the user this view into the workings of the system; consequently, query results from these systems can be inexplicable, despite the availability of knobs for adjusting the similarity metrics.  By finding image regions which roughly correspond to objects, we allow querying at the level of objects rather than global image properties.  We present results indicating that querying for images using Blobworld produces higher precision than does querying using color and texture histograms of the entire image in cases where the image contains distinctive objects. 
A continuous probabilistic framework for image matching| Abstract In this paper we describe a probabilistic image matching scheme in whichtheimage representation is continuous, and the similarity measure and distance computation are also defined in the continuous domain.  Each image is first represented as a Gaussian mixture distribution and images are compared and matched via a probabilistic measure of similarity between distributions.  A common probabilistic and continuous framework is applied to the representation as well as the matching process, ensuring an overall system that is theoretically appealing.  Matching results are investigated and the application to an image retrieval system is demonstrated. 
Integration of Content-based Image Retrieval to Picture Archiving and Communication Systems| Abstract With the increasing number of digital modalities in routine use, content-based image retrieval (CBIR) is becoming more and more important for electronic patient records and picture archiving and communication systems (
A Probabilistic Framework for the Detection and Tracking in Time of Multiple Sclerosis Lesions| ABSTRACT A novel statistical scheme for the automatic detection and tracking in time of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions in image sequences is described.  Coherent space-time regions in a four-dimensional feature space (intensity, position (x,y), and time) are extracted by unsupervised clustering using Gaussian mixture modeling.  The segments in the sequence pertaining to lesions are automatically detected by context-based classification mechanisms.  Lesion segmentation and tracking are performed in a unified manner and not separately, as in other works.  A model adaptation stage, in which spacetime regions are merged, is introduced for the improvement of lesions' delineation.  Qualitative and quantitative results for a sequence of 24 images are shown.  The framework's results were validated by comparison to an expert's manual delineation. 
Automatic Identification of Bacterial Types Using Statistical Imaging Methods| Abstract---The objective of the current study is to develop an automatic tool to identify microbiological data types using computervision and statistical modeling techniques.  Bacteriophage (phage) typing methods are used to identify and extract representative profiles of bacterial types out of species such as the Staphylococcus aureus.  Current systems rely on the subjective reading of profiles by a human expert.  This process is time-consuming and prone to errors, especially as technology is enabling the increase in the number of phages used for typing.  The statistical methodology presented in this work, provides for an automated, objective and robust analysis of visual data, along with the ability to cope with increasing data volumes. 
Probabilistic Space-Time Video Modeling via Piecewise GMM| Abstract In this paper we describe a statistical video representation and modeling scheme.  Video representation schemes are needed to segment a video stream into meaningful video-objects, useful for later indexing and retrieval applications.  In the proposed methodology, unsupervised clustering via Gaussian mixture modeling extracts coherent space-time regions in feature space, and corresponding coherent segments (video-regions) in the video content.  A key feature of the system is the analysis of video input as a single entity as opposed to a sequence of separate frames.  Space and time are treated uniformly.  The probabilistic space-time video representation scheme is extended to a piecewise GMM framework in which a succession of GMMs are extracted for the video sequence, instead of a single global model for the entire sequence.  The piecewise GMM framework allows for the analysis of extended video sequences and the description of nonlinear, nonconvex motion patterns.  The extracted space-time regions allow for the detection and recognition of video events.  Results of segmenting video content into static vs.  dynamic video regions and video content editing are presented. 
Context-Based Image Modelling| Abstract In this work we address the task of adapting the model representation of a given image, in the context of a second, target image model.  We present the BlobEMD framework, in which the images are represented as sets of blobs and optimal correspondences are found between the representations of the images and are used to adapt the representation of the source image to that of the target image.  The contextbased model adaptation results in models which represent well the original images but are more uniform, and best aligned with respect to the target images.  This allows for similarity measures between images that are insensitive to the segmentation process and to different levels of details of the representation.  We show applications of this method for matching models of heavily dithered images with models of full resolution images, and for content-based image segmentation where the transition from regions to representative silhouettes is shown. 
Region-Based Image Querying| Abstract Retrieving images from large and varied collections using image content as a key is a challenging and important problem.  In this paper we present a new image representation which provides a transformation from the raw pixel data to a small set of localized coherent regions in color and texture space.  This so-called "blobworld" representation is based on segmentation using the Expectation-Maximization algorithm on combined color and texture features.  The texture features we use for the segmentation arise from a new approach to texture description and scale selection.  We describe a system that uses the blobworld representation to retrieve images.  An important and unique aspect of the system is that, in the context of similarity-based querying, the user is allowed to view the internal representation of the submitted image and the query results.  Similar systems do not offer the user this view into the workings of the system; consequently, the outcome of many queries on these systems can be quite inexplicable, despite the availability of knobs for adjusting the similarity metric. 
Probabilistic Spatial-Temporal Segmentation of Multiple Sclerosis Lesions| Abstract.  In this paper we describe the application of a novel statistical videomodeling scheme to sequences of multiple sclerosis (MS) images taken over time.  The analysis of the image-sequence input as a single entity, as opposed to a sequence of separate frames, is a unique feature of the proposed framework.  Coherent space-time regions in a four-dimensional feature space (intensity, position (x,y), and time) and corresponding coherent segments in the video content are extracted by unsupervised clustering via Gaussian mixture modeling (GMM).  The Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm is used to determine the parameters of the model according to the maximum likelihood principle.  MS lesions are automatically detected, segmented and tracked in time by context-based classification mechanisms.  Qualitative and quantitative results of the proposed methodology are shown for a sequence of 24 T2-weighted MR images, which was acquired from a relapsing-remitting MS patient over a period of approximately a year.  The validation of the framework was performed by a comparison to an expert radiologist's manual delineation. 
Color- and Texture-Based Image Segmentation Using EM and Its Application to Content-Based Image Retrieval \Lambda| Abstract Retrieving images from large and varied collections using image content as a key is a challenging and important problem.  In this paper we present a new image representation which provides a transformation from the raw pixel data to a small set of image regions which are coherent in color and texture space.  This so-called "blobworld" representation is based on segmentation using the Expectation-Maximization algorithm on combined color and texture features.  The texture features we use for the segmentation arise from a new approach to texture description and scale selection.  We describe a system that uses the blobworld representation to retrieve images.  An important and unique aspect of the system is that, in the context of similarity-based querying, the user is allowed to view the internal representation of the submitted image and the query results.  Similar systems do not offer the user this view into the workings of the system; consequently, the outcome of many queries on these systems can be quite inexplicable, despite the availability of knobs for adjusting the similarity metric. 
Color- and Texture-based Image Segmentation Using the Expectation-Maximization Algorithm and its Application to Content-Based Image Retrieval|
Learning Texture Discrimination Rules in a Multiresolution System|
Finding Pictures of Objects in Large Collections of Images|
Unsupervised Image Clustering Using the Information Bottleneck Method|
Mixture model for face-color modeling and segmentation|
