THE LUMINOSITY FUNCTION OF MAIN-SEQUENCE STARS WITHIN 80 PARSECS FROM HIPPARCOS DATA| ABSTRACT The basic data discussed here consist of parallaxes and apparent magnitudes of more than 6000 stars with # <, 26 degrees from the Hipparcos Catalogue which were selected from the Michigan Spectral Catalogue to have estimated spectroscopic distances within 80 parsecs.  The statistical properties of the sample are briefly discussed, and the luminosity function of main sequence stars is determined by the maximum-volume method from nearly 3000 stars with observed parallaxes greater than 12. 5 mas. 
SYNTHESIZING EMOTIONS IN SPEECH: IS IT TIME TO GET EXCITED?| ABSTRACT Modern speech synthesis systems with very high intelligibility are readily available in a number of languages.  However, the output from all present systems is still readily identifiable as being machine-generated - the output does not sound "natural".  One aspect of naturalness is the variability introduced by the emotional state of the speaker, and related pragmatic effects; no current commercial systems include such variation.  Comparatively little work has been done to investigate how a speaker's emotional state creates variation in the speech signal, and this work has traditionally been performed by psychologists and has remained distinct from mainstream speech science.  Current research suggests that there will be considerable effort involved in producing any accurate description of pragmatic variations in speech, but there has recently been increasing interest in this area due to potential applications in many branches of speech technology.  This paper describes a prototype system which has been constructed to simulate emotion in speech synthesized by rule.  The system is based on emotion information from the literature, and it simulates a range of emotions using a commercial synthesiser.  The use of emotion models and their applicability in the area of speech technology is discussed.  The limitations of our current knowledge in the area of vocal emotion are discussed, and suggestions are presented for future research in this area. 
CPC2 PLATE REDUCTIONS WITH HIPPARCOS STARS: FIRST RESULTS| ABSTRACT The Second Cape Photographic Catalog (CPC2) contains 276 131 stars covering the entire Southern Hemisphere in a 4{fold overlap pattern of 5687 plates.  New plate reductions using Hipparcos stars have been done.  The formal error of a Hipparcos star position at the mean epoch of the CPC2 (1968) is about 30 mas per coordinate, which is small compared to the x,y measuring precision.  A standard error of unit weight of 90 mas has been obtained for an average plate solution as compared to 141 mas for the earlier solution based on the Southern Reference Stars (SRS).  The same systematic field distortion patterns have been found in both solutions, but only the Hipparcos reference stars allow solving for magnitude dependent, systematic errors on a plate by plate basis.  Using the Hipparcos Catalogue considerably improves the accuracy of the final CPC2, which is estimated to be about 45 mas per coordinate when reductions, including a global block adjustment, are completed later this year.  Without significant systematic errors, this improved CPC2 will be a key catalogue for proper motion determinations of 9 to 11 magnitude stars in the Southern Hemisphere. 
Nested sampling for Potts models| Abstract Nested sampling is a new Monte Carlo method by Skilling [1] intended for general Bayesian computation.  Nested sampling provides a robust alternative to annealing-based methods for computing normalizing constants.  It can also generate estimates of other quantities such as posterior expectations.  The key technical requirement is an ability to draw samples uniformly from the prior subject to a constraint on the likelihood.  We demonstrate how this can be achieved for the Potts model, an undirected graphical model. 
Bayesian Learning in Undirected Graphical Models: Approximate MCMC algorithms| Abstract Bayesian learning in undirected graphical models---computing posterior distributions over parameters and predictive quantities--is exceptionally difficult.  We conjecture that for general undirected models, there are no tractable MCMC (Markov Chain Monte Carlo) schemes giving the correct equilibrium distribution over parameters.  While this intractability, due to the partition function, is familiar to those performing parameter optimisation, Bayesian learning of posterior distributions over undirected model parameters has been unexplored and poses novel challenges.  We propose several approximate MCMC schemes and test on fully observed binary models (Boltzmann machines) for a small coronary heart disease data set and larger artificial systems.  While approximations must perform well on the model, their interaction with the sampling scheme is also important.  Samplers based on variational mean-field approximations generally performed poorly, more advanced methods using loopy propagation, brief sampling and stochastic dynamics lead to acceptable parameter posteriors.  Finally, we demonstrate these techniques on a Markov random field with hidden variables. 
Wild-Type and Met-65 f Leu Variants of Human Cystatin A Are Functionally and Structurally Identical| ABSTRACT: The solution structure of an N-terminally truncated and mutant form (M65L 2-98 ) of the human cysteine protease inhibitor cystatin A has been reported that reveals extensive structural differences when compared to the previously published structure of full-length wild-type (WT) cystatin A.  On the basis of the M65L 2-98 structure, a model of the inhibitory mechanism of cystatin A was proposed wherein specific interactions between the N- and C-terminal regions of cystatin A are invoked as critical determinants of protease binding.  To test this model and to account for the reported differences between the two structures, we undertook additional structural and mechanistic analyses of WT and mutant forms of human cystatin A.  These show that modification at the C-terminus of cystatin A by the addition of nine amino acids has no effect upon the affinity of papain inhibition (KD ) 0. 18 ( 0. 02 pM) and the consequences of such modification are not propagated to other parts of the structure.  These findings indicate that perturbation of the C-terminus can be achieved without any measurable effect on the N-terminus or the proteinase binding loops.  In addition, introduction of the methionine-65 f leucine substitution into cystatin A that retains the N-terminal methionine (M65L 1-98 ) has no significant effect upon papain binding (KD ) 0. 34 ( 0. 02 pM).  Analyses of the structures of WT and M65L 1-98 using 1 H NMR chemical shifts and residual dipolar couplings in a partially aligning medium do not reveal any evidence of significant differences between the two inhibitors.  Many of the differences between the published structures correspond to major violations by M65L 2-98 of the WT constraints list, notably in relation to the position of the N-terminal region of the inhibitor, one of three structural motifs indicated by crystallographic studies to be involved in protease binding by cystatins.  In the WT structure, and consistent with the crystallographic data, this region is positioned adjacent to another inhibitory motif (the first binding loop), whereas in M65L 2-98 there is no proximity of these two motifs.  As the NMR data for both WT9C and M65L 1-98 are wholly consistent with the published structure of WT cystatin A and incompatible with that of M65L 2-98 ,we conclude that the former represents the most reliable structural model of this protease inhibitor.  Human cystatin A, also named stefin A, is a member of the cystatin superfamily of cysteine proteinase inhibitors, whose main function is to protect cells from unwanted proteolysis, and is involved in the control mechanism responsible for protein breakdown (1).  Members of the superfamily are potent competitive inhibitors of papain-like cysteine proteases and have been classified into three subfamilies, based on sequence identity, number of disulfide bonds, and the molecular mass of the proteins (2).  Cystatin A is classified as a type I inhibitor, contains 98 amino acid residues, has a molecular mass of approximately 11 kDa, and contains no disulfides or carbohydrates.  It is believed to provide an important protective function against infective agents (2) and has proposed roles in many pathological states including cardiovascular disease and cancer (3-7).  Mutations in the gene encoding cystatin B, a related type I inhibitor (53% amino acid identity with cystatin A), cause a heritable form of progressive myoclonus epilepsy (8).  While most such mutations are associated with reduced transcription or aberrant splicing of cystatin B RNA (9), a single G f C transversion, resulting in the replacement of Gly-4 by arginine, is also sufficient to cause disease (10).  As this glycine residue is an important determinant of protease inhibition by cystatin A (11), and absolutely conserved in all cystatins, it appears that unregulated activity of a papainlike cysteine protease is responsible for this neurodegenerative disorder.  The structure of cystatin B bound to papain has been determined by X-ray crystallography and reveals that three distinct sequence motifs of type I cystatins contribute to protease binding and inhibition (12).  In the complex, a socalled "tripartite wedge" is formed from the amino terminus (residues Met-1 to Pro-6) and two surface loops (Gln-
Implementation and testing of a system for producing emotion-by-rule in synthetic speech,|
Towards a simulation of emotion in synthetic speech: a review of the literature on human vocal emotion,|
Applying analysis of human emotional speech to enhance synthetic speech,|
Emotional stress in synthetic speech: progress and future directions|
Pragmatics and affect in a communication system for non-speakers,"|
Towards a definition and working model of stress and its effects on speech|
m e a 2 0 ,and symmetry numbers for Si clusters|
power laser light source for near-field optics and its application to high-density optical data storage|
"Structures and Coalescence Behavior of Size-Selected Silicon NanoClusters Studied by Surface-Plasmon-Polariton Enhanced Raman Spectroscopy,|
