How surprising is a simple pattern? Quantifying "Eureka!"| Abstract Simple patterns are compelling.  When all the observed facts fit into a simple theory or "story," we are intuitively convinced that the pattern must be real rather than random.  But how surprising is a simple pattern, really? That is, given a pattern of featural data, such as the properties of a set of objects, how unlikely would the pattern be if they were actually generated at random? In conventional statistics dealing with patterns of numbers, this type of question would be answered by reference to a null distribution such as the t distribution.  This paper gives the analogous answer in the realm of concept learning, that is, the formation of generalizations from patterns of featural data.  Using a formal but psychologically valid definition of complexity, I derive and exhibit the distribution of subjective complexity under the hypothesis of no pattern.  This leads directly to a number of applications, including a statistical test indicating whether an observed pattern is sufficiently simple that it is not likely to have been an accident: literally, the "significance of simplicity. 
The role of objects in perceptual grouping| Abstract Perceptual organization can be viewed as the selection of the best or "most reasonable" parse of a given scene.  However, the principles that determine which interpretation is most reasonable have resisted most attempts to dene them formally.  This paper summarizes a formal theory of human perceptual
What change detection tells us about the visual representation of shape| Many recent findings suggest that human observers are surprisingly "blind" to changes in visual displays, failing to notice when substantial scene elements are added, subtracted, or altered in successive presentations of the scene.  But observers are far more sensitive to certain visual changes than others, and we suggest that which types of changes enjoy differential sensitivity can reveal a great deal about the underlying visual representations.  In this study, we investigate how the human visual system represents the shape of objects by demonstrating a previously unknown influence on detection of changes in shape: the sign of contour curvature.  We show that subjects are substantially more sensitive to changes in concave regions of a shape's contour than to changes in convex regions, even when these changes do not alter the number or location of parts.  Further, we show that this effect is modulated by figure-ground assignment, so that changes to the same physical contour are more or less detectable, depending on the contour's perceived figural status, which determines whether the change falls in a concave or convex region.  The results demonstrate a heightened sensitivity for changes at concavities that is not reducible to a sensitivity to changes in gross part structure. 
Regularity-based Perceptual Grouping| Abstract This paper investigates perceptual grouping from a logical point of view, defining a grouping interpretation as a particular kind of logical expression, and then developing an explicit inference theory in terms of such expressions.  First, a regularity-based interpretation language is presented, in which an observed configuration is characterized in terms of the regularities (special configurational classes, e. g.  non-accidental properties) it obeys.  The most preferred interpretation in such a system is shown to be the most-regular (maximum "codimension") model the observed configuration obeys, which is also the unique model in which it is generic (typical).  Inference then reduces to a straightforward exercise in Logic Programming.  Because generic model assignment involves negation, this reduction requires that a version of the Closed World Assumption (CWA) be adopted.  Next, this entire regularity-based machinery is generalized to the grouping problem: here an interpretation is a hierarchical (recursive) version of a model called a parse tree.  For a given number of dots and a fixed choice of regularity set, it is possible to explicitly enumerate the complete set of possible grouping interpretations, partially ordered by their degree of regularity (codimension).  The most preferred interpretation is the one with maximum codimension (i. e. , the most regular interpretation), which we call the qualitative parse.  The qualitative parse has a unique epistemic status: given a choice of regularity set, it is the only grouping interpretation that both (a) is maximally regular, and (b) satisfies the CWA.  This unique status, it is argued, accounts for the perceptually compelling quality of the qualitative parse as a grouping interpretation. 
The Simplicity Principle in Human Concept Learning|
Detection of change in shape: an advantage for concavities| Abstract Shape representation was studied using a change detection task.  Observers viewed two individual shapes in succession, either identical or one a slightly altered version of the other, and reported whether they detected a change.  We found a dramatic advantage for concave compared to convex changes of equal magnitude.  Observers were more accurate when a concavity along the contour was introduced, or removed, compared to a convexity.  This result sheds light on the underlying representation of visual shape, and in particular the central role played by part-boundaries.  Moreover, this finding shows how change detection methodology can serve as a useful tool in studying the specific form of visual representations. 
Categorization Under Complexity: A Unified MDL Account of Human Learning of Regular and Irregular Categories| Abstract We present an account of human concept learning---that is, learning of categories from examples---based on the principle of minimum description length (MDL).  In support of this theory, we tested a wide range of two-dimensional concept types, including both regular (simple) and highly irregular (complex) structures, and found the MDL theory to give a good account of subjects' performance.  This suggests that the intrinsic complexity of a concept (that is, its description length) systematically influences its learnability.  1 The Structure of Categories A number of different principles have been advanced to explain the manner in which humans learn to categorize objects.  It has been variously suggested that the underlying principle might be the similarity structure of objects [1], the manipulability of decision boundaries [2], or Bayesian inference [3][4].  While many of these theories are mathematically well-grounded and have been successful in explaining a range of experimental findings, they have commonly only been tested on a narrow collection of concept types similar to the simple unimodal categories of Figure 1(a--c).  Figure 1: Categories similar to those previously studied.  Lines represent contours of equal probability.  All except (e) are unimodal.  9 http://ruccs. rutgers. edu/~jacob/feldman. html Moreover, in the scarce research that has ventured to look beyond simple category types, the goal has largely been to investigate categorization performance for isolated irregular distributions, rather than to present a survey of performance across a range of interesting distributions.  For example, Nosofsky has previously examined the "criss-cross" category of Figure 1(d) and a diagonal category similar to Concept 3 of Figure 2, as well as some other multimodal categories [5][6].  While these individual category structures are no doubt theoretically important, they in no way exhaust the range of possible concept structures.  Indeed, if we view1 -dimensional Cartesian space as the canvas upon which a category may be represented, then any set of manifolds in that space may be considered as a potential category [7].  It is therefore natural to ask whether one such category-manifold is in principle easierormoredifficult to learn than another.  Since previous investigations have never considered any reasonably broad range of category structures, they have never been in a position to answer this question.  In this paper we present a theory for human categorization, based on the MDL principle, that is much better equipped to answer questions about the intrinsic learnability of both structurally regular and structurally irregular categories.  In support of this theory we briefly present an experiment testing human subjects' learning of a range of concept types defined over a continuous two-dimensional feature space, including both highly regular and highly irregular structures.  We find that our MDL-based theory gives a good account of human learning for these concepts, and that descriptive complexity accurately predicts the subjective difficulty of the various concept types tested. 
Formal Constraints on Cognitive Interpretations of Causal Structure| Abstract Human observers are remarkably proficient at extracting the causal structure of both natural and artifactual worlds on the basis of extremely impoverished observations, but a rigorous theory of how they achieve this is elusive.  This paper investigates the formal structure of this problem, collapsing the distinction between human and automatic inference about complex systems, and considering an abstract observer in an abstract world.  We introduce a structure algebra, a reduced description logic that is designed to be biased towards the recovery of causal structure in much the same way as are human observers.  We illustrate how the algebra captures human intuitions about the "natural" interpretation of certain canonic types of observed property covariation.  Finally we propose a formal criterion for the adequacy of a given description language to capture algebraically the "true" causal structure of a particular closed world. 
Theoretical note Acatalog of Boolean concepts| Abstract Boolean concepts are concepts whose membership is determined by a Boolean function, such as that expressed by a formula of propositional logic.  Certain Boolean concepts have been much studied in the psychological
Efficient Regularity-Based Grouping|
Lectures on orbit equivalence, preprint,|
