Extensions of Marginalized Graph Kernels| Abstract Positive definite kernels between labeled graphs have recently been proposed.  They enable the application of kernel methods, such as support vector machines, to the analysis and classification of graphs, for example, chemical compounds.  These graph kernels are obtained by marginalizing a kernel between paths with respect to a random walk model on the graph vertices along the edges.  We propose two extensions of these graph kernels, with the double goal to reduce their computation time and increase their relevance as measure of similarity between graphs.  First, we propose to modify the label of each vertex by automatically adding information about its environment with the use of the Morgan algorithm.  Second, we suggest a modification of the random walk model to prevent the walk from coming back to a vertex that was just visited.  These extensions are then tested on benchmark experiments of chemical compounds classification, with promising results. 
Kernels for gene regulatory regions| Abstract We describe a hierarchy of motif-based kernels for multiple alignments of biological sequences, particularly suitable to process regulatory regions of genes.  The kernels incorporate progressively more information, with the most complex kernel accounting for a multiple alignment of orthologous regions, the phylogenetic tree relating the species, and the prior knowledge that relevant sequence patterns occur in conserved motif blocks.  These kernels can be used in the presence of a library of known transcription factor binding sites, or de novo by iterating over all k-mers of a given length.  In the latter mode, a discriminative classifier built from such a kernel not only recognizes a given class of promoter regions, but as a side effect simultaneously identifies a collection of relevant, discriminative sequence motifs.  We demonstrate the utility of the motif-based multiple alignment kernels by using a collection of aligned promoter regions from five yeast species to recognize classes of cell-cycle regulated genes.  Supplementary data is available at
Extraction of correlated gene clusters from multiple genomic data by generalized kernel canonical correlation analysis| ABSTRACT Motivation: A major issue in computational biology is the reconstruction of pathways from several genomic datasets, such as expression data, protein interaction data and phylogenetic profiles.  As a first step toward this goal, it is important to investigate the amount of correlation which exists between these data.  Method: We present new methods to measure the correlation between several heterogeneous datasets, and to extract sets of genes which share similarities with respect to multiple biological attributes.  The originality of our approach is the extension of the concept of correlation for non-vectorial data, which is made possible by the use of generalized kernel canonical correlation analysis (KCCA), and the method we propose to extract groups of genes responsible for the detected correlations.  Moreover, two variants of KCCA are proposed when more than two datasets are available.  Result: These methods are successfully tested on their ability to recognize operons in the Escherichia coli genome, from the comparison of three datasets corresponding to functional relationships between genes in metabolic pathways, geometrical relationships along the chromosome, and co-expression relationships as observed by gene expression data. 
Protein network inference from multiple genomic data: a supervised approach| # To whom correspondence should be addressed. 
Graph-Driven Feature Extraction From Microarray Data Using Diffusion Kernels and Kernel CCA| Abstract We present an algorithm to extract features from high-dimensional gene expression profiles, based on the knowledge of a graph which links together genes known to participate to successive reactions in metabolic pathways.  Motivated by the intuition that biologically relevant features are likely to exhibit smoothness with respect to the graph topology, the algorithm involves encoding the graph and the set of expression profiles into kernel functions, and performing a generalized form of canonical correlation analysis in the corresponding reproducible kernel Hilbert spaces.  Function prediction experiments for the genes of the yeast S.  Cerevisiae validate this approach by showing a consistent increase in performance when a state-of-the-art classifier uses the vector of features instead of the original expression profile to predict the functional class of a gene. 
Supervised graph inference| Abstract We formulate the problem of graph inference where part of the graph is known as a supervised learning problem, and propose an algorithm to solve it.  The method involves the learning of a mapping of the vertices to a Euclidean space where the graph is easy to infer, and can be formulated as an optimization problem in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space.  We report encouraging results on the problem of metabolic network reconstruction from genomic data. 
Adaptive context trees and text clustering|
Text Categorization Using Adaptive Context Trees|
Support Vector Machine Prediction of Signal Peptide Cleavage Site Using a New Class of Kernels for Strings|
Protein homology detection using string alignment kernels|
