The Local Projective Shape of Smooth Surfaces and their Outlines| Abstract This paper examines projectively invariant local properties of smooth curves and surfaces.  Oriented projective differential geometry is proposed as a theoretical framework for establishing such invariants and describing the local shape of surfaces and their outlines.  This framework is applied to two problems: a projective proof of Koenderink's famous characterization of convexities, concavities, and inflections of apparent contours; and the determination of the relative orientation of rim tangents at frontier points. 
An Implemented Planner for Manipulating a Polygonal Object in the Plane with Three Disc-Shaped Mobile Robots| Abstract This paper presents an implementation of a planner that uses three disc-shaped robots to manipulate a polygonal object in the plane in the presence of obstacles.  The approach is based on the computation of the maximal discs (dubbed maximal independent capture discs or MICaDs) where the robots can move independently while preventing the object from escaping their grasp.  It has been shown that, in the absence of obstacles, it is always possible to bring a polygonal object from any configuration to any other one with robot motions constrained to lie in a set of overlapping MICaDs.  This approach is generalized to the case where obstacles are present by decomposing the motion planning task into (1) the construction of a collision-free path for a modified form of the object, and (2) the execution of this path by a sequence of simultaneous and independent robot motions within overlapping MICaDs.  The approach is guaranteed to work provided a collision free path exists for the modified form of the object.  Experiments with Nomadic Scouts and a visual localization system are presented. 
Parameterized Image Varieties: A Novel Approach to the Analysis and Synthesis of Image Sequences| Abstract.  This paper addresses the problem of characterizing the space formed by all images of a rigid set of n points observed by a weak perspective or paraperspective camera.  By taking explicitly into account the Euclidean constraints associated with calibrated cameras, we show that this space is a six-dimensional variety embedded in IR 2n , and parameterize it using the image positions of three reference points.  This parameterization is constructed via linear least squares from point correspondences established across a sequence of images, and it is used to synthesize new pictures without any explicit three-dimensional model.  Degenerate scene and camera configurations are analyzed, and experiments with real image sequences are presented. 
The Local Projective Shape of Smooth Surfaces and Their Outlines| Abstract.  This article examines projectively-invariant local geometric properties of smooth curves and surfaces.  Oriented projective differential geometry is proposed as a general framework for establishing such invariants and characterizing the local projective shape of surfaces and their outlines.  It is applied to two problems: (1) the projective generalization of Koenderink's famous characterization of convexities, concavities, and inflections of the apparent contours of solids bounded by smooth surfaces, and (2) the image-based construction of rim meshes, which provide a combinatorial description of the arrangement induced on the surface of an object by the contour generators associated with multiple cameras observing it. 
Provably-Convergent Iterative Methods for Projective Structure from Motion| Astract: The estimation of the projective structure of a scene from image correspondences can be formulated as the minimization of the mean-squared distance between predicted and observed image points with respect to the projection matrices, the scene point positions, and their depths.  Since these unknowns are not independent, constraints must be chosen to ensure that the optimization process is well posed.  This paper examines three plausible choices, and shows that the first one leads to the Sturm-Triggs projective factorization algorithm, while the other two lead to new provably-convergent approaches.  Experiments with synthetic and real data are used to compare the proposed techniques to the Sturm-Triggs algorithm and bundle adjustment. 
Robust Structure and Motion from Outlines of Smooth Curved Surfaces| Abstract: This article addresses the problem of estimating the motion of a camera as it observes the outline (or apparent contour) of a solid bounded by a smooth surface in successive image frames.  In this context, the surface points that project onto the apparent contour of an object depend on the viewpoint, and the only true correspondences between two outlines of the same object are the projections of frontier points where the viewing rays intersect in the tangent plane of the surface.  Given the apparent contours detected in an image sequence, a robust procedure is proposed for simultaneously estimating the camera configurations and a consistent subset of the frontier.  It uses the signature representation of the dual of image outlines to identify promising correspondences, and the redundancy of multi-view epipolar geometry to retain the consistent ones.  The visual hull of the observed solid is finally reconstructed from the recovered viewpoints.  The proposed approach is, in principle, applicable to orthographic, weak-perspective and arbitrary affine projection models, but its current implementation is limited to the orthographic case.  Experiments with nine real image sequences are presented, including a quantitative comparison of the recovered and ground-truth camera configurations for the six datasets for which the latter information is available, and sample visual hulls computed from all image sequences. 
On Grasping and Manipulating Polygonal Objects with Disc-Shaped Robots in the Plane| Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of grasping and manipulating a polygonal object with three disc-shaped robots capable of translating in arbitrary directions in the plane.  The main novelty of the proposed approach is that it does not assume that contact is maintained during the execution of the grasping/manipulation task.  Nor does it rely on detailed (and a priori unverifiable) models of friction or contact dynamics.  Instead, the range of possible object motions for a given position of the robots is characterized in configuration space.  This allows the construction of manipulation plans guaranteed to succeed under the weaker assumption that jamming does not occur during the task execution. 
In Proceedings of CVPR '96 Structure and Motion of Curved 3D Objects from Monocular Silhouettes| Abstract The silhouette of a smooth 3D object observed by a moving camera changes over time. 
Segmenting, Modeling, and Matching Video Clips Containing Multiple Moving Objects| Abstract.  This paper presents a novel representation for dynamic scenes composed of multiple rigid objects that may undergo different motions and be observed by a moving camera.  Multi-view constraints associated with groups of affine-invariant scene patches and a normalized description of their appearance are used to segment a scene into its rigid parts, construct three-dimensional projective, affine, and Euclidean models of these parts, and match instances of models recovered from different image sequences.  The proposed approach has been implemented, and it is applied to the detection and recognition of moving objects in video sequences and the identification of shots that depict the same scene in a video clip (shot matching). 
On Pencils of Tangent Planes and the Recognition of Smooth 3D Shapes from Silhouettes| Abstract.  This paper presents a geometric approach to recognizing smooth objects from their outlines.  We define a signature function that associates feature vectors with objects and baselines connecting pairs of possible viewpoints.  Feature vectors, which can be projective, a6ne, or Euclidean, are computed using the planes that pass through a fixed baseline and are also tangent to the object's surface.  In the proposed framework, matching a test outline to a set of training outlines is equivalent to finding intersections in feature space between the images of the training and the test signature functions.  The paper presents experimental results for the case of internally calibrated perspective cameras, where the feature vectors are angles between epipolar tangent planes. 
Probabilistic 3D Object Recognition| Abstract We present a probabilistic 3D object recognition algorithm which uses the probabilistic peaking effect of measured angles and ratios of lengths to guide the recognition process.  Isoratio and isoangle curves are traced on the viewing sphere and are used to compute conditional probabilities.  These probabilities are incorporated into a probabilistic model which deals with various types of uncertainty associated with the recognition process, such as uncertainty due to imperfect results of edge and corner detection (e. g.  detecting edges which belong to the background, not detecting edges which belong to the object, and uncertainty in edge and corner position).  We perform pose estimation and compute the uncertainty in pose due to the uncertainty in measurements in the image.  The uncertainty pose subspaces are used to find hypotheses which reinforce each other.  We compute the probability that these sets of hypotheses are correct and use these probabilities to rank the matching hypotheses. 
On Computing Metric Upgrades of Projective Reconstructions Under the Rectangular Pixel Assumption| Abstract.  This paper shows how to upgrade the projective reconstruction of a scene to a metric one in the case where the only assumption made about the cameras observing that scene is that they have rectangular pixels (zero-skew cameras).  The proposed approach is based on a simple characterization of zero-skew projection matrices in terms of line geometry, and it handles zero-skew cameras with arbitrary or known aspect ratios in a unified framework.  The metric upgrade computation is decomposed into a sequence of linear operations, including linear leastsquares parameter estimation and eigenvalue-based symmetric matrix factorization, followed by an optional non-linear least-squares refinement step.  A few classes of critical motions for which a unique solution cannot be found are spelled out.  A MATLAB implementation has been constructed and preliminary experiments with real data are presented. 
Duals, Invariants, and the Recognition of Smooth Objects from their Occluding Contour| We illustrate the proposed object representation scheme through synthetic examples and image contours detected in real images. 
A Sparse Texture Representation Using Affine-Invariant Regions| Abstract This paper introduces a texture representation suitable for recognizing images of textured surfaces under a wide range of transformations, including viewpoint changes and nonrigid deformations.  At the feature extraction stage, a sparse set of affine-invariant local patches is extracted from the image.  This spatial selection process permits the computation of characteristic scale and neighborhood shape for every texture element.  The proposed texture representation is evaluated in retrieval and classification tasks using the entire Brodatz database and a collection of photographs of textured surfaces taken from different viewpoints. 
Automatic Model Construction, Pose Estimation, and Object Recognition from Photographs Using Triangular Splines| Abstract: This paper proposes a method for automatically constructing triangular G 1 spline models of complex three-dimensional objects from a few registered photographs.  These models are used for pose estimation from monocular silhouette data and they form the basis for a simple recognition strategy.  The proposed approach is demonstrated by several experiments. 
Binocular Helmholtz Stereopsis| Abstract Helmholtz stereopsis has been introduced recently as a surface reconstruction technique that does not assume a model of surface reflectance.  In the reported formulation, correspondence was established using a rank constraint, necessitating at least three viewpoints and three pairs of images.  Here, it is revealed that the fundamental Helmholtz stereopsis constraint defines a nonlinear partial differential equation, which can be solved using only two images.  It is shown that, unlike conventional stereo, binocular Helmholtz stereopsis is able to establish correspondence (and thereby recover surface depth) for objects having an arbitrary and unknown BRDF and in textureless regions (i. e. , regions of constant or slowly varying BRDF).  An implementation and experimental results validate the method for specular surfaces with and without texture. 
TOWARDS STRUCTURE AND MOTION ESTIMATION FROM DYNAMIC SILHOUETTES \Lambda| Abstract: We address the problem of estimating the structure and motion of a smooth curved object from its silhouettes observed over time by a trinocular imagery.  We first construct a model for the local structure along the silhouette for each frame in the temporal sequence.  The local models are then integrated into a global surface description by estimating the motion between successive frames.  The algorithm tracks certain surface and image features (parabolic points and silhouette inflections, frontier points) which are used to bootstrap the motion estimation process.  The whole silhouette is then used to refine the initial motion estimate.  We have implemented the proposed approach and report preliminary results. 
On Computing Structural Changes in Evolving Surfaces and their Appearance| It has been implemented and examples are presented. 
IN-HAND MANIPULATION: GEOMETRY AND ALGORITHMS| Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of manipulating three-dimensional objects with a reconfigurable gripper.  A detailed analysis of the problem geometry in configuration space is used to devise a simple and efficient algorithm for manipulation planning.  The proposed approach has been implemented and preliminary simulation experiments are discussed. 
On Planning Immobilizing Grasps for a Reconfigurable Gripper| Abstract: We propose a new reconfigurable gripper that consists of two parallel plates whose distance can be adjusted by a computer-controlled actuator.  The bottom plate is a bare plane, and the top plate carries a rectangular grid of actuated pins that can translate in discrete increments under computer control.  We propose to use this gripper to immobilize objects through frictionless contacts with three of the pins and the bottom plate.  We present an efficient grasp planning algorithm, describe the design of the gripper, which is currently under construction, and report preliminary simulation experiments. 
COMPUTING THE IMMOBILIZING THREE-FINGER GRASPS OF PLANAR OBJECTS| Abstract.  This paper addresses the problem of computing frictionless three-finger immobilizing grasps of two-dimensional objects whose boundaries are described by polynomial splines.  Using the mobility theory of Rimon and Burdick, we first develop a set of equations that describe the immobilization constraints.  We then present a grasp planning algorithm which uses exact cell decomposition and homotopy continuation techniques to construct an explicit description of the immobilization regions (including sample points) in the contact configuration space.  The problem of finding optimal immobilizing grasps reduces to hill climbing in each of these regions.  We have implemented the proposed approach and present some preliminary results. 
In Proceedings of CVPR '93 Reconstruction of HOT Curves from Image Sequences| Abstract Recently, a novel shape representation of general curved objects, which is suitable for object recognition, has been proposed; it is based on a set of surface curves, named HOT curves, defined by the locus of points where a line has high order tangency with the surface [16].  These curves determine the structure of an object's image contours and their catastrophic changes.  A nat 2 ural correspondence between a point in an intensity image and some of these curves can be directly established.  This correspondence can be used for pose estimation and indexing in recognition.  It also permits their 3D reconstruction from feature points on the edges detected in a sequence of images under known observer motion.  This paper presents an implemented reconstruction method and experimental results. 
Invariant-Based Recognition of Complex Curved 3D Objects from Image Contours| Abstract To recognize three-dimensional objects bounded by smooth curved surfaces from monocular image contours, viewpoint-dependent image features must be related to object geometry.  Contour bitangents and inflections along with associated parallel tangents points are the projection of surface points that lie on the occluding contour for a five-parameter family of scaled orthographic projection viewpoints.  An invariant representation can be computed from these image features and used for modeling and recognizing objects.  Modeling is achieved by moving an object in front of a camera to obtain a curve of possible invariants.  The relative camera-object motion is not required, and three-dimensional models are not utilized.  At recognition time, invariants computed from a single image are used to index the model database.  Using the matched features, independent qualitative and quantitative verification procedures eliminate potential false matches.  The approach has been implemented and examples are presented. 
Epipolar Geometry and Linear Subspace Methods: A New Approach to Weak Calibration| Abstract This paper addresses the problem of estimating the epipolar geometry from point correspondences between two images taken by uncalibrated perspective cameras.  It is shown that Jepson's and Heeger's linear subspace technique for infinitesimal motion estimation can be generalized to the finite motion case by choosing an appropriate basis for projective space.  This yields a linear method for weak calibration.  The proposed algorithm has been implemented and tested on both real and synthetic images, and it is compared to other linear and non-linear approaches to weak calibration. 
On Computing Exact Visual Hulls of Solids Bounded by Smooth Surfaces| Abstract This paper presents a method for computing the visual hull that is based on two novel representations: the rim mesh, which describes the connectivity of contour generators on the object surface; and the visual hull mesh, which describes the exact structure of the surface of the solid formed by intersecting a finite number of visual cones.  We describe the topological features of these meshes and show how they can be identified in the image using epipolar constraints.  These constraints are used to derive an image-based practical reconstruction algorithm that works with weakly calibrated cameras.  Experiments on synthetic and real data validate the proposed approach. 
On Computing Four-Finger Equilibrium and Force-Closure Grasps of Polyhedral Objects| Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of computing stable grasps of three-dimensional polyhedral objects.  We consider the case of a hand equipped with four hard fingers and assume point contact with friction.  We prove new necessary and sufficient conditions for equilibrium and force closure, and present a geometric characterization of all possible types of four-finger equilibrium grasps.  We then focus on concurrent grasps, for which the lines of action of the four contact forces all intersect in a point.  In this case, the equilibrium conditions are linear in the unknown grasp parameters, which reduces the problem of computing the stable grasp regions in configuration space to the problem of constructing the eight-dimensional projection of an eleven-dimensional polytope.  We present two projection methods: the first one uses a simple Gaussian elimination approach, while the second one relies on a novel output-sensitive contour-tracking algorithm.  Finally, we use linear optimization within the valid configuration space regions to compute the maximalobject regions where fingers can be positioned independently while ensuring force closure.  We have implemented the proposed approach and present several examples. 
3D Object Modeling and Recognition Using Affine-Invariant Patches and Multi-View Spatial Constraints| Abstract: This paper presents a novel representation for three-dimensional objects in terms of affine-invariant image patches and their spatial relationships.  Multi-view constraints associated with groups of patches are combined with a normalized representation of their appearance to guide matching and reconstruction, allowing the acquisition of true three-dimensional affine and Euclidean models from multiple images and their recognition in a single photograph taken from an arbitrary viewpoint.  The proposed approach does not require a separate segmentation stage and is applicable to cluttered scenes.  Preliminary modeling and recognition results are presented. 
In Proceedings of ICCV '95 Invariant-Based Recognition of Complex Curved 3D Objects from Image Contours| Abstract To recognize three-dimensional objects bounded by smooth curved surfaces from monocular image contours, viewpoint-dependent image features must be related to object geometry.  Contour bitangents and inflections along with associated parallel tangents points are the projection of surface points that lie on the occluding contour for a five-parameter family of scaled orthographic projection viewpoints.  An invariant representation can be computed from these image features and used for modeling and recognizing objects.  Modeling is achieved by moving an object in front of a camera to obtain a curve of possible invariants.  The relative camera-object motion is not required, and 3D models are not utilized.  At recognition time, invariants computed from a single image are used to index the model database.  Using the matched features, independent qualitative and quantitative verification procedures eliminate potential false matches.  Examples from an implementation are presented. 
Semi-Local Affine Parts for Object Recognition| Abstract This paper proposes a new approach for finding expressive and geometrically invariant parts for modeling 3D objects.  The approach relies on identifying groups of local affine regions (image features having a characteristic appearance and elliptical shape) that remain approximately affinely rigid across a range of views of an object, and across multiple instances of the same object class.  These groups, termed semi-local affine parts, are learned using correspondence search between pairs of unsegmented and cluttered input images, followed by validation against additional training images.  The proposed approach is applied to the recognition of butterflies in natural imagery. 
Capturing a convex object with three discs| Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of capturing an arbitrary convex object P in the plane with three congruent disc-shaped robots.  Given two stationary robots in contact with P , we characterize the set of positions of a third robot that prevent P from escaping to infinity and show that the computation of this so-called capture region reduces to the resolution of a visibility problem.  We present two algorithms for solving this problem and computing the capture region when P is a polygon and the robots are points (zero-radius discs).  The first algorithm is exact and has polynomial-time complexity.  The second one uses simple hidden-surface removal techniques from computer graphics to output an arbitrarily accurate approximation of the capture region; it has been implemented and examples are presented. 
New Techniques for Computing Four-Finger-Force-Closure Grasps of Polyhedral Objects| Abstract: It was shown in [12] that four-finger forceclosure grasps fall into three categories: concurrent, pencil, and regulus grasps.  We propose new techniques for computing these three types of grasps.  We have implemented them and present examples. 
ON PLANNING IMMOBILIZING FIXTURES FOR THREE-DIMENSIONAL POLYHEDRAL PARTS| Abstract: We propose a simple three-dimensional modular fixturing device and present an algorithm for enumerating all of the immobilizing fixtures of a polyhedral object that can be achieved with this device and four frictionless contacts.  Our approach is based on the second-order mobility theory of Rimon and Burdick [19, 20, 21]. 
Affine-Invariant Local Descriptors and Neighborhood Statistics for Texture Recognition| Abstract This paper presents a framework for texture recognition based on local affine-invariant descriptors and their spatial layout.  At modeling time, a generative model of local descriptors is learned from sample images using the EM algorithm.  The EM framework allows the incorporation of unsegmented multi-texture images into the training set.  The second modeling step consists of gathering co-occurrence statistics of neighboring descriptors.  At recognition time, initial probabilities computed from the generative model are refined using a relaxation step that incorporates cooccurrence statistics.  Performance is evaluated on images of an indoor scene and pictures of wild animals. 
3D Photography from Photographs and Video Clips| Abstract This paper addresses the problem of acquiring realistic visual models of the shape and appearance of complex three-dimensional (3D) scenes from collections of images, a process dubbed 3D photography.  We focus on three instances of this problem: (1) the image-based construction of projective visual hulls of complex surfaces from weakly-calibrated photographs; (2) the automated matching and registration of photographs of textured surfaces using aneinvariant patches and their geometric relationships; and (3) an approach to projective motion analysis and self-calibration explicitly accounting for natural camera constraints such as zero skew and capable of handling large numbers of images in an ecient and uniform manner.  We also briefly discuss some related applications of oriented dierential projective geometry to computer vision problems, including the determination of the ordering of rim segments in projective visual hull computation, and a purely projective proof of Koenderink's famous characterization of the local shape of visual contours. 
Finite-Resolution Aspect Graphs of Polyhedral Objects| Abstract We address the problem of computing the exact aspect graph of a polyhedral object observed by an orthographic camera with finite resolution, such that two image points separated by a distance smaller than a preset threshold cannot be resolved.  Under this model, views that would be different under normal orthographic projection may become equivalent, while "accidental" views may occur over finite areas of the view space.  We present a catalogue of visual events for polyhedral objects and give an algorithm for computing the aspect graph and enumerating all qualitatively different aspects.  The algorithm has been fully implemented and results are presented. 
Constructing 3d object models from photographs|
An object centered hierarchical representation for 3d objects: the prism tree|
On characterizing ribbons and finding skewed symmetries|
Computing exact aspect graphs of curved objects: Solids of revolution|
Automatic Model Construction, Pose Estimation, and Object Recognition from Photographs using Triangular Splines|
Toward a surface primal sketch|
Computing Exact Aspect Graphs of Curved Objects: Algebraic Surfaces|
On Recognizing and Positioning Curved 3-D Objects from Image Contours|
Invariant-Based Recognition of Complex Curved 3D Objects from Image Contours|
On computing two-finger force-closure grasps on curved 2d objects|
Describing surfaces|
Invariant Properties of Straight Homogeneous Generalized Cylinders and Their Contours|
Parameterized Families of Polynomials for Bounded Algebraic Curve and Surface Fitting|
Using Geometric Distance Fits for 3-D Object Modeling and Recognition|
Computing exact aspect graphs of curved objects: Algebraic surfaces|
Elimination theory and computer vision: Recognition and positioning of curved 3d objects from range, intensity, or contours|
Toward a Scale-Space Aspect Graph: Solids of Revolution|
A new curve tracing algorithm and some applications|
On Computing Aspect Graphs of Smooth Shapes from Volumetric Data,|
Finding the limbs and cusps of generalized cylinders|
An algebraic approach to line-drawing analysis in the presence of uncertainty|
On Manipulating Polygonal Objects with Three 2-DOF Robots in the Plane|
A New Method For Segmenting 3-D Scenes Into Primitives,|
On How to Compute Exact Visual Hulls of Object Bounded by Smooth Surfaces|
Object representation, identification, and positioning from range data",|
Curve and surface duals and the recognition of curved 3D objects from their silhouette|
HOT curves for modeling and recognition of smooth curved 3D objects,|
Computer Vision - A Modern Approach,|
On computing force-closure grasps of curved two-dimensional objects|
Convex hulls of algebraic curves|
Provablyconvergent iterative methods for projective structure and motion|
Structure and motion of curved 3D objects from monocular silhouettes|
Structure and Motion from Images of Smooth Textureless Objects|
Representations and Algorithms for 3D Curved Object Recognition,|
Hot curves for modelling and recognition of smooth curved 3D objects|
Metric upgrade of a projective reconstruction under the rectangular pixel assumption|
On Characterizing and Computing Three- and Four-Finger Force-Closure Grasps of Polyhedral Objects|
Constraints for Recognizing and Locating Curved 3D Objects from Monocular Image Features|
HOT curves for modelling and recognition of aribtrary smooth 3D shapes|
Convex hulls of algebraic curves|
Afne-invariant local descriptors and neighborhood statistics for texture recognition|
3d probabilistic object recognition|
Report on the 1995 Workshop on 3-D Object Representations in Computer Vision|
The left image is the surface of a synthetic dented cylinder| The dent shape is Gaussian.  The right image is a cross section of the dent fitted with a separable Gaussian. 
On computing four-finger forceclosure grasps of polyhedral objects|
D Object Modelling and Recognition using AffineInvariant Patches and Multi-View Spatial Constraints|
Representations for Recognizing Complex Curved 3D Objects|
Prism trees: an efficient representation for manipulating and displaying polyhedra with many faces,|
On Using CAD Models to Compute the Pose of Curved 3D Objects|
Repr#esentation des objets tridimensionnels|
Image Segmentation Using Geometric and Physical Constraints|
Structure and Motion Estimation from Dynamic Silhouettes under Perspective Projection|
Invariant properties of straight homogenousgeneralised cylinders,|
Straight homogeneous generalized cylinders| Differential geometry and uniqueness results",. 
"Describing Surfaces," Proc| of the 2nd Int'l. 
Recovering The Shape of Polyhedra Using Line-Drawing Analysis and Complex Reflectance Models'|
Invariant-based recognition of complex 3D curved objects from image contours|
Discrete and Computational Geometry,|
A Reconfigurable Parts Feeder with an Array of Pins|
Localized Intersections Computation for Solid Modelling with Straight Homogeneous Generalized Cylinders,|
Eds|), Object representation in computer vision II, ECCV'96 International workshop,. 
Eds), Report of the NSF/ARPA workshop on 3D object representation for computer vision|
editors|
symmetries, and skewed symmetries,|
The vote on bilingual education and Latino identity in Massachusetts|MauricioGaston Institute for LatinoCommunity Development and Public Policy [Research Activities, Working Papers]. 
Object Representation in Computer Vision---II|
Image-Based Rendering Using Parameterized Image Varieties|
Primitives, perceptual organisation and object recognition|
New progress in prediction and interpretation of line-drawings of curved 3D objects,"|
"On Recognising and Positioning Curved 3 Dimensional Objects from Image Contours,|
Structure and motion estimation from dynamic silhouettes|
Grasping and in-hand manipulation: Experiments with a reconfigurable gripper|
Algorithms for constructing immobilizing fixtures and grasps of three-dimensional objects|
On Using Geometric Distance Fits to Estimate 3D Object Shape, Pose, and Deformation from Range, CT, and Video Images,|
Manipulating parts with an array of pins: A method and a machine|
A new approach to motion planning for disc-shaped robots pushing a polygonal object in the plane|
s x 0 2|
Analytical properties of Generalized Cylinders and their projections,|
editors|
Analytical Methods for Uncalibrated Stereo and Motion Reconstruction|
iOn Recognizing and Positioning Curved 3D objects from Image Contours,j|
Reconstruction of HOT curves from images sequences|
Panel discussion|
