PUBLISHED IN 3RD WORKSHOP ON CONTENT-BASED MULTIMEDIA INDEXING (CBMI)| ABSTRACT The automatic segmentation and structuring of videos present technical challenges due to the large variation of content, spatial layout, and possible lack of storyline.  In this paper, we propose a spectral method to group video shots into scenes based on their visual similarity and temporal relations.  Spectral methods have been shown to be effective in capturing perceptual organization features.  In particular, we investigate the problem of automatic model selection, which is currently an open research issue for spectral methods, and propose measures to assess the validity of a grouping result.  The methodology is used to group shots from home videos and soccer games.  The results indicate the validity of the proposed approach, both compared to existing techniques as well as to human performance. 
AV16|3: An Audio-Visual Corpus for Speaker Localization and Tracking.  Abstract.  Assessing the quality of a speaker localization or tracking algorithm on a few short examples is difficult, especially when the groundtruth is absent or not well defined.  One step towards systematic performance evaluation of such algorithms is to provide time-continuous speaker location annotation over a series of real recordings, covering various test cases.  Areas of interest include audio, video and audio-visual speaker localization and tracking.  The desired location annotation can be either 2-dimensional (image plane) or 3-dimensional (physical space).  This paper motivates and describes a corpus of audio-visual data called "AV16. 3", along with a method for 3-D location annotation based on calibrated cameras.  "16. 3" stands for 16 microphones and 3 cameras, recorded in a fully synchronized manner, in a meeting room.  Part of this corpus has already been successfully used to report research results. 
Embedding Motion in Model-Based Stochastic Tracking| Abstract Particle filtering (PF) is now established as one of the most popular methods for visual tracking.  Within this framework, two assumptions are generally made.  The first is that the data are temporally independent given the sequence of object states, and the second one is the use of the transition prior as proposal distribution.  In this paper, we argue that the first assumption does not strictly hold and that the second can be improved.  We propose to handle both modeling issues using motion.  Explicit motion measurements are used to drive the sampling process towards the new interesting regions of the image, while implicit motion measurements are introduced in the likelihood evaluation to model the data correlation term.  The proposed model allows to handle abrupt motion changes and to filter out visual distractors when tracking objects with generic models based on shape representations.  Experimental results compared against the CONDENSATION algorithm have demonstrated superior tracking performance. 
A MIXED-STATE I-PARTICLE FILTER FOR MULTI-CAMERA SPEAKER TRACKING| Abstract.  Tracking speakers in multi-party conversations represents an important step towards automatic analysis of meetings.  In this paper, we present a probabilistic method for audio-visual (AV) speaker tracking in a multi-sensor meeting room.  The algorithm fuses information coming from three uncalibrated cameras and a microphone array via a mixed-state importance particle filter, allowing for the integration of AV streams to exploit the complementary features of each modality.  Our method relies on several principles.  First, a mixed state space formulation is used to define a generative model for camera switching.  Second, AV localization information is used to define an importance sampling function, which guides the search process of a particle filter towards regions of the configuration space likely to contain the true configuration (a speaker).  Finally, the measurement process integrates shape, color, and audio observations.  We show that the principled combination of imperfect modalities results in an algorithm that automatically initializes and tracks speakers engaged in real conversations, reliably switching across cameras and between participants. 
A Color and Gradient Local Descriptor Fusion Scheme For Object Recognition| Abstract.  In this paper we study the behavior of local descriptor object recognition methods with respect to 3D geometric transformations and image resolution variations.  As expected performance decreases with accentuated perspective and decrease in resolution.  To improve performance and robustness, we propose a scheme to fuse color and gradient local descriptors.  This approach is motivated by the discriminative power of color in man-made object recognition.  The problem of color feature extraction is addressed as well as the considerations on the fusion process and steps to train such fusion.  We used SOIL-47A database for experiments and shown a 7% to 10% relative improvement when compared with state-of-the-art gradient based descriptors. 
An implicit motion likelihood for tracking with particle filters| ##################################### 37870 -5412 Abstract Particle filters is now established as one of the most popular method for visual tracking.  Within this framework, it is generally assumed that the data are temporally independent given the sequence of object states.  In this paper, we argue that in general the data are correlated, and that modeling such dependency should improve tracking robustness.  To take data correlation into account, we propose a new model which can be interpreted as introducing a likelihood on implicit motion measurements.  The proposed model allows to filter out visual distractors when tracking objects with generic models based on shape or color distribution representations, as shown by the reported experiments. 
Spectral Structuring of Home Videos| Abstract.  Accessing and organizing home videos present technical challenges due to their unrestricted content and lack of storyline.  In this paper, we propose a spectral method to group video shots into scenes based on their visual similarity and temporal relations.  Spectral methods have been shown to be effective in capturing perceptual organization features.  In particular, we investigate the problem of automatic model selection, which is currently an open research issue for spectral methods, and propose measures to assess the validity of a grouping result.  The methodology is used to group scenes from a six-hour home video database, and is assessed with respect to a ground-truth generated by multiple people.  The results indicate the validity of the proposed approach, both compared to existing techniques as well as the human ground-truth. 
Robust Playfield Segmentation using MAP Adaptation| Abstract A vital task in sports video annotation is to detect and segment areas of the playfield.  This is an important first step in player or ball tracking and detecting the location of the play on the playfield.  In this paper we present a technique using statistical models, Gaussian mixture models (GMMs) and Maximum a Posteriori (MAP) adaptation.  This involves first creating a generic model of the playfield colour and then using unsupervised MAP adaptation to adapt this model to the colour of the playfield in each game.  This technique provides a robust and accurate segmentation of the playfield.  In order to test the robustness of the method we tested it on a number of different sports that have grass playfields, rugby, soccer and field hockey. 
On Spectral Methods and the Structuring of Home Videos| Abstract.  Accessing and organizing home videos present technical challenges due to their unrestricted content and lack of storyline.  In this paper, we propose a spectral method to group video shots into scenes based on their visual similarity and temporal relations.  Spectral methods exploit the eigenvector decomposition of a pair-wise similarity matrix and can be effective in capturing perceptual organization features.  In particular, we investigate the problem of automatic model selection, which is currently an open research issue for spectral methods.  We first analyze the behaviour of the algorithm with respect to variations in the number of clusters, and then propose measures to assess the validity of a grouping result.  The methodology is used to group scenes from a six-hour home video database, and is assessed with respect to a ground-truth generated by multiple humans.  The results indicate the validity of the proposed approach, both compared to existing techniques as well as the human ground-truth. 
UNSUPERVISED LOCATION-BASED SEGMENTATION OF MULTI-PARTY SPEECH| In an application to real meeting data, the algorithm produces high precision speech segmentation. 
A Probabilistic Framework for Joint Head Tracking and Pose Estimation| Abstract Head Tracking and pose estimation are usually considered as two sequential and separate problems: pose is estimated on the head patch provided by a tracking module.  However, precision in head pose estimation is dependent on tracking accuracy which itself could benefit from the head orientation knowledge.  Therefore, this work considers head tracking and pose estimation as two coupled problems in a probabilistic setting.  Head pose models are learned and incorporated into a mixed-state particle filter framework for joint head tracking and pose estimation.  Experimental results on real sequences show the effectiveness of the method in estimating more stable and accurate pose values. 
Fusion of Structural and Color Local Descriptors for Enhanced Object Recognition| Abstract In this paper we study the behavior of local descriptor object recognition methods with respect to 3D geometric transformations and image resolution variations.  As expected performance decreases with accentuated perspective and decrease in resolution.  To improve performance and robustness, we propose a scheme to fuse color and gradient local descriptors.  This approach is motivated by the discriminative power of color in man-made object recognition.  The problem of color feature extraction is addressed as well as the considerations on the fusion process and steps to train such fusion.  We used SOIL-47A database for experiments and shown a 7% to 10% relative improvement when compared with state-of-the-art gradient based descriptors. 
Robust multiresolution estimation of parametric motion models|
A ROI apporach for hybrid image sequence coding|
Robust multiresolution estimation of parametric motion models in complex image sequences|
Sequential monte carlo video text segmentation, in:|
Text Segmentation and Recognition in Complex Background Based on Markov Random Field|
an Audio-Visual Corpus for Speaker Localization and Tracking|
Suivi 2D de pices m'etalliques en vue d'un asservissement visuel|
Detection of Multiple Moving Objects using Multiscale MRF with Camera Motion Compensation|
MRF-based motion segmentation exploiting a 2D motion model robust estimation|
Estimation robuste multi-'echelle de modles param'etr'es de mouvement sur des scnes complexes|
Direct incremental model-based image motion segmentation for video analysis|
Determination of singular points in 2d deformable flow fields|
Audio-visual speaker tracking with importance particle filters,"|
Shortterm spatio-temporal clustering of sporadic and concurrent events,"|
Locating singular points and characterizing deformable flow fields in image sequences,|
