CENTER FOR MACHINE PERCEPTION CZECH TECHNICAL| Abstract The problem of establishing correspondences between a pair of images taken from different viewpoints, i. e.  the "wide-baseline stereo" problem, is studied in the paper.  The choice of image elements that are put into correspondence in the wide-baseline matching problem is discussed.  The concept of a distinguished region is introduced and formally defined and it is argued distinguished regions are very good candidates for matching.  Two new types of distinguished regions, the Separated Elementary Cycles of the Edge Graph (SECs) and the Maximally Stable Extremal Regions (MSERs), are introduced.  For both types, an efficient (near linear complexity) and practically fast detection algorithm is presented.  Experimentally the stability of the proposed DRs is shown on disparate views of real-world scenes with significant change of scale, camera rotation and 3D translation of the viewpoint.  A new robust similarity measure for establishing tentative correspondences is proposed.  The robustness ensures that invariants from multiple measurement regions, some that are significantly larger (and hence discriminative) than the distinguished region, may be used to establish tentative correspondences.  In experiments on indoor and outdoor image pairs, good estimates of epipolar geometry are obtained on challenging wide-baseline problems with the robustified matching algorithm operating on the output produced by the proposed detectors of distinguished regions.  Locally fully affine distortions and significant occlusion were present in the tests. 
Matching with PROSAC -- Progressive Sample Consensus| Abstract A new robust matching method is proposed.  The Progressive Sample Consensus (PROSAC) algorithm exploits the linear ordering defined on the set of correspondences by a similarity function used in establishing tentative correspondences.  Unlike RANSAC, which treats all correspondences equally and draws random samples uniformly from the full set, PROSAC samples are drawn from progressively larger sets of top-ranked correspondences.  Under the mild assumption that the similarity measure predicts correctness of a match better than random guessing, we show that PROSAC achieves large computational savings.  Experiments demonstrate it is often significantly faster (up to more than hundred times) than RANSAC.  For the derived size of the sampled set of correspondences as a function of the number of samples already drawn, PROSAC converges towards RANSAC in the worst case.  The power of the method is demonstrated on widebaseline matching problems. 
Colour Image Retrieval and Object Recognition Using the Multimodal Neighbourhood Signature| Abstract.  A novel approach to colour-based object recognition and image retrieval -the multimodal neighbourhood signature- is proposed.  Object appearance is represented by colour-based features computed from image neighbourhoods with multi-modal colour density function.  Stable invariants are derived from modes of the density function that are robustly located by the mean shift algorithm.  The problem of extracting local invariant colour features is addressed directly, without a need for prior segmentation or edge detection.  The signature is concise { an image is typically represented by a few hundred bytes, a few thousands for very complex scenes.  The algorithm's performance is first tested on a region-based image retrieval task achieving a good (92%) hit rate at a speed of 600 image comparisons per second.  The method is shown to operate successfully under changing illumination, viewpoint and object pose, as well as non-rigid object deformation, partial occlusion and the presence of background clutter dominating the scene.  The performance of the multimodal neighbourhood signature method is also evaluated on a standard colour object recognition task using a publicly available dataset.  Very good recognition performance (average match percentile 99. 5%) was achieved in real time (average 0. 28 seconds for recognising a single image) which compares favourably with results reported in the literature. 
On Matching Scores for LDA-based Face Verification| Abstract We address the problem of face verification using linear discriminant analysis and investigate the issue of matching score 1 .  We establish the reason behind the success of the normalised correlation.  The improved understanding about the role of metric then naturally leads to a novel way of measuring the distance between a probe image and a model.  In extensive experimental studies on the publicly available XM2VTS database 2 using the Lausanne protocol 3 we show that the proposed metric is consistently superior to both the Euclidean distance and normalised correlation matching scores.  The effect of various photometric normalisations 4 on the matching scores is also investigated. 
Locally Optimized RANSAC| Abstract A new enhancement of RANSAC, the locally optimized RANSAC (LO-RANSAC), is introduced.  It has been observed that, to find an optimal solution (with a given probability), the number of samples drawn in RANSAC is significantly higher than predicted from the mathematical model.  This is due to the incorrect assumption, that a model with parameters computed from an outlier-free sample is consistent with all inliers.  The assumption rarely holds in practice.  The locally optimized RANSAC makes no new assumptions about the data, on the contrary - it makes the above-mentioned assumption valid by applying local optimization to the solution estimated from the random sample.  The performance of the improved RANSAC is evaluated in a number of epipolar geometry and homography estimation experiments.  Compared with standard RANSAC, the speed-up achieved is two to three fold and the quality of the solution (measured by the number of inliers) is increased by 10-20%.  The number of samples drawn is in good agreement with theoretical predictions. 
Object Recognition using the Invariant Pixel-Set Signature| Abstract A new object recognition method, the Invariant Pixel Set Signature (IPSS), is introduced.  Objects are represented with a probability density on the space of invariants computed from measurements (pixel values) inside convex hulls of n-tuples of interest points.  Experimentally the method is tested on COIL-20, a publicly available database of 72 views of 20 natural object rotating on a turntable.  With a model built from a single view, recognition performance measured by the average match percentile is above 98% for #20 degrees and above 96% for #30 degrees.  For some object, 100% first rank is achieved for all 72 views.  Robustness to occlusion is shown using images with one half covered.  For a small change of viewpoint (#10 degrees) recognition of the occluded object is perfect. 
Audio-Visual Person Verification| Abstract.  In this paper we investigate benefits of classifier combination (fusion) for a multimodal system for personal identity verification.  The system uses frontal face images and speech.  We show that a sophisticated fusion strategy enables the system to outperform its facial and vocal modules when taken seperately.  We show that both trained linear weighted schemes and fusion by Support Vector Machine classifier leads to a significant reduction of total error rates.  The complete system is tested on data from a publicly available audio-visual database (XM2VTS, 295 subjects) according to a published protocol. 
Randomized RANSAC with T d,d test| Abstract Many computer vision algorithms include a robust estimation step where model parameters are computed from a data set containing a significant proportion of outliers.  The RANSAC algorithm is possibly the most widely used robust estimator in the field of computer vision.  In the paper we show that under a broad range of conditions, RANSAC efficiency is significantly improved if its hypothesis evaluation step is randomized.  A new randomized (hypothesis evaluation) version of the RANSAC algorithm, R-RANSAC, is introduced.  Computational savings are achieved by typically evaluating only a fraction of data points for models contaminated with outliers.  The idea is implemented in a two-step evaluation procedure.  A mathematically tractable class of statistical preverification tests for test samples is introduced.  For this class of preverification test we derive an approximate relation for the optimal setting of its single parameter.  The proposed pre-test is evaluated on both synthetic data and real-world problems and a significant increase in speed is shown. 
Saliency-Based Robust Correlation for Real-Time Face Registration and Verification| Abstract We propose a novel person verification system for real-time face identification.  The main features of the system include accurate registration of face images using a robust form of correlation, a framework for global registration of a face database using a minimum spanning tree algorithm and a method for selecting a subset of features optimal for discrimination between clients and impostors.  The results indicate that the image registration is of high accuracy and the feature selection is successfully improving on the verification performance. 
CENTER FOR MACHINE PERCEPTION CZECH TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY REPRINT A New Class of Learnable Detectors for Categorisation| Abstract.  A new class of image-level detectors that can be adapted by machine learning techniques to detect parts of objects from a given category is proposed.  A classifier (e. g.  neural network or adaboost trained classifier) within the detector selects a relevant subset of extremal regions, i. e.  regions that are connected components of a thresholded image.  Properties of extremal regions render the detector very robust to illumination change.  Robustness to viewpoint change is achieved by using invariant descriptors and/or by modeling shape variations by the classifier.  The approach is brought to bear on three problems: text detection, face segmentation and leopard skin detection.  High detection rates were obtained for unconstrained (i. e.  brightness, affine and font invariant) text detection (92%) with a reasonable false positive rate.  The time-complexity of the detection is approximately linear in the number of pixels and a non-optimized implementation runs at about 1 frame per second for a 640 480 image on a high-end PC. 
Image Retrieval Using Local Compact DCT-based Representation| Abstract.  An image retrieval system based on local affine frames is introduced.  The system provides highly discriminative retrieval of rigid objects under a very wide range of viewing and illumination conditions, and is robust to occlusion and background clutter.  Distinguished regions of data dependent shape are detected, and local affine frames (coordinate systems) are obtained.  Photometrically and geometrically normalised image patches are extracted and used for matching.  Local correspondences are formed either by direct comparison of photometrically normalised colour intensities in the normalised patches, or by comparison of DCT (discrete cosine transform) coefficients of the patches.  Experimental results are presented on a publicly available database of real outdoor images of buildings.  We demonstrate the effect of the number of DCT coefficients that are used for the matching.  Using the DCT, excellent results with a retrieval performance of 100% in rank 1 are achieved, and memory usage is reduced by a factor of 4. 
CENTER FOR MACHINE PERCEPTION CZECH TECHNICAL| Abstract In this report we summarise our experiments with ADABOOST and its application to the problem of face detection.  As a starting point, the Viola-Jones face detector ([1]) is reimplemented and some details of the implementation are discussed.  Next, modifications of both the training and detection procedure are reported.  In the learning phase, tenfold decrease in training time, without noticeable reduction in performance, is achieved via randomisation.  Two more modifications of the Viola-Jones algorithm are reported.  First, the benefits of illumination normalisation are explored.  Improvements both in the speed of training and in detection are achieved at minimum computational costs, since the 'integral image' technique is employed.  Secondly, weak classifiers based on LDA in the space constructed from pairs of Viola-Jones are incorporated into ADABOOST and their performance tested.  Finally, work in progress and future directions of our research are discussed. 
Epipolar Geometry Estimation via RANSAC Benefits from the Oriented Epipolar Constraint| Abstract The efficiency of epipolar geometry estimation by RANSAC is improved by exploiting the oriented epipolar constraint.  Performance evaluation shows that the enhancement brings up to a two-fold speed-up.  The orientation test is simple to implement, is universally applicable and takes negligible fraction of time compared with epipolar geometry computation. 
Discriminative Regions for Human Face Detection| Abstract We propose a robust method for face detection based on the assumption that face can be represented by arrangements of automatically detectable discriminative regions.  The appearance of face is modelled statistically in terms of local photometric information and the spatial relationship of the discriminative regions.  The spatial relationship between these regions serves mainly as a preliminary evidence for the hypothesis that a face is present in a particular position.  The final decision is carried out using the complete information from the whole image patch.  The results are very promising. 
Object Recognition using Local Affine Frames on Distinguished Regions| Abstract A novel approach to appearance based object recognition is introduced.  The proposed method, based on matching of local image features, reliably recognises objects under very different viewing conditions.  First, distinguished regions of data-dependent shape are robustly detected.  On these regions, local affine frames are established using several affine invariant constructions.  Direct comparison of photometrically normalised colour intensities in local, geometrically aligned frames results in a matching scheme that is invariant to piecewise-affine image deformations, but still remains very discriminative.  The potential of the approach is experimentally verified on COIL-100 and SOIL-47 -- publicly available image databases.  On SOIL-47, 100% recognition rate is achieved for single training view per object.  On COIL-100, 99. 9% recognition rate is obtained for 18 training views per object.  Robustness to severe occlusions is demonstrated by only a moderate decrease of recognition performance in an experiment where half of each test image is erased. 
The Multimodal Signature Method : An Eciency Study| Abstract The multimodal neighbourhood signature (MNS) method has presented acceptable results both for the colour-based image retrieval and the object recognition task.  Local colour content is concisely represented by invariant features computed from neighbourhoods with multimodal colour density function.  In this paper, eciency related issues regarding the MNS algorithm are investigated.  Its performance, speed, sensitivity and storage requirements are tested on a standard colour object recognition experiment.  Very good recognition rate (99. 9%) was achieved in real time (0. 28 seconds per match).  MNS signatures are concise and thus significant data reduction is achieved.  The complexity of signature computation and matching are analysed and ecient implementations are proposed. 
On Exploiting the Oriented Epipolar Constraint in Epipolar Geometry Estimation via RANSAC| Abstract The efficiency of epipolar geometry estimation by RANSAC is improved by exploiting the oriented epipolar constraint.  Performance evaluation shows that the enhancement leads up to a two-fold speed-up.  The orientation test is trivial to implement, is universally applicable and takes negligible fraction of time compared to epipolar geometry computation. 
ILLUMINATION INVARIANT OBJECT RECOGNITION USING THE MNS METHOD| ABSTRACT The suitability of the Multimodal Neighbourhood Signature (MNS) method for illumination invariant recognition is investigated.  The MNS algorithm directly formulates the problem of extracting illumination invariants from local colour appearance of an object.  The invariants are the channelwise ratio and the cross-ratio computed from modes (pairs of modes respectively) of colour density function in neighbourhoods with multimodal density function.  The MNS algorithm is tested on a colour object recognition task designed to test the effectiveness of algorithms claiming illumination invariance properties.  The image set used is publicly available from the Simon Fraser University.  Results previously reported using colour constancy and histogram matching were comparable to the performance of the presented method that achieved recognition rate of 60%.  When the pose of the objects was fixed recognition performance was 84%. 
Learning Parameters of a Recognition System Based on Local Affine Frames| Abstract An approach to object recognition, based on matching of local image features, is presented.  First, distinguished regions of data-dependent shape are robustly detected.  On these regions, local affine frames are established using several affine invariant constructions.  Direct comparison of photometrically normalised colour intensities in local, geometrically aligned frames results in a matching scheme that is invariant to piecewise-affine image deformations, but still remains very discriminative.  Nevertheless, invariance to a wide range of local geometric and photometric transformations reduces the discriminative power -- not all possible transformations are equiprobable.  Probability of the transformations is estimated from matches established by the invariant method on the training data.  The estimate is exploited in the recognition phase to favour local correspondences with more likely transformations.  The potential of the approach is experimentally verified on COIL-100 -- a publicly available image database.  99. 9% recognition rate is obtained for 18 training views per object. 
Rotational Invariants for Wide-baseline Stereo #| Abstract The problem of establishing correspondences between a pair of images taken from different viewpoints, i. e.  the "wide-baseline stereo" problem, is studied in the paper.  To handle the problem of affine distortion between two corresponding regions a method based on rotational invariants computed on normalised measurement regions is applied.  A robust similarity measure for establishing tentative correspondences is used.  The robustness ensures that invariants from multiple measurement regions, some that are significantly larger (and hence discriminative) than the distinguished region, may be used to establish tentative correspondences. 
Performance Evaluation of the Multi-modal Neighbourhood Signature Method for Colour Object Recognition| Abstract The proposed method represents object or image colour structure by features computed from neighbourhoods with multi-modal colour density function.  Stable invariants are derived from modes of colour density that are robustly estimated by the mean shift algorithm.  The problem of extracting local invariant colour features is addressed directly, without a need for prior segmentation or edge detection.  The signature is concise --- an image is typically represented by a few hundred bytes, a few thousands for very complex scenes.  We demonstrate the algorithm's performance on a standard colour object recognition task using a publicly available dataset.  Very good recognition performance (average match percentile 99. 5%) was achieved in real time (average 0. 28 seconds per match) which compares favourably with results reported in the literature.  The method has been shown to operate successfully under changing illumination, viewpoint, object pose, non-rigid deformation and partial occlusion. 
The BANCA Database and Evaluation Protocol| Abstract.  In this paper we describe the acquisition and content of a new large, realistic and challenging multi-modal database intended for training and testing multi-modal verification systems.  The BANCA database was captured in four European languages in two modalities (face and voice).  For recording, both high and low quality microphones and cameras were used.  The subjects were recorded in three different scenarios, controlled, degraded and adverse over a period of three months.  In total 208 people were captured, half men and half women.  In this paper we also describe a protocol for evaluating verification algorithms on the database.  The database will be made available to the research community
Robust Wide Baseline Stereo from Maximally Stable Extremal Regions| Abstract The wide-baseline stereo problem, i. e.  the problem of establishing correspondences between a pair of images taken from different viewpoints is studied.  A new set of image elements that are put into correspondence, the so called extremal regions, is introduced.  Extremal regions possess highly desirable properties: the set is closed under 1.  continuous (and thus projective) transformation of image coordinates and 2.  monotonic transformation of image intensities.  An efficient (near linear complexity) and practically fast detection algorithm (near frame rate) is presented for an affinely-invariant stable subset of extremal regions, the maximally stable extremal regions (MSER).  A new robust similarity measure for establishing tentative correspondences is proposed.  The robustness ensures that invariants from multiple measurement regions (regions obtained by invariant constructions from extremal regions), some that are significantly larger (and hence discriminative) than the MSERs, may be used to establish tentative correspondences.  The high utility of MSERs, multiple measurement regions and the robust metric is demonstrated in wide-baseline experiments on image pairs from both indoor and outdoor scenes.  Significant change of scale (3. 5), illumination conditions, out-of-plane rotation, occlusion , locally anisotropic scale change and 3D translation of the viewpoint are all present in the test problems.  Good estimates of epipolar geometry (average distance from corresponding points to the epipolar line below 0. 09 of the inter-pixel distance) are obtained. 
The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineering (IEEE) Local Affine Frames for Wide-Baseline Stereo| Abstract A novel procedure for establishing wide-baseline correspondence is introduced.  Tentative correspondences are established by matching photometrically normalised colour measurements represented in a local affine frame.  The affine frames are obtained by a number of affine invariant constructions on robustly detected maximally stable extremal regions of data-dependent shape.  Several processes for local affine frame construction are proposed and proved affine covariant.  The potential of the proposed approach is demonstrated on demanding wide-baseline matching problems.  Correspondence between two views taken from different viewpoints and camera orientations as well as at very different scales is reliably established.  For the scale change present (a factor more than 3), the zoomed-in image covers less than 10% of the wider view. 
Detection of Human Faces from Discriminative Regions| Abstract We propose a robust method for face detection based on the assumption that face can be represented by arrangements of automatically detectable discriminative regions.  The appearance of face is modeled statistically in terms of local photometric information and the spatial relationship of the discriminative regions.  The spatial relationship between these regions serves mainly as a preliminary evidence for the hypothesis that a face is present in a particular position.  The final decision is carried out using the complete information from the whole image patch.  The results are very promising. 
On Combining Classifiers| Abstract---We develop a common theoretical framework for combining classifiers which use distinct pattern representations and show that many existing schemes can be considered as special cases of compound classification where all the pattern representations are used jointly to make a decision.  An experimental comparison of various classifier combination schemes demonstrates that the combination rule developed under the most restrictive assumptions---the sum rule---outperforms other classifier combinations schemes.  A sensitivity analysis of the various schemes to estimation errors is carried out to show that this finding can be justified theoretically. 
Randomized RANSAC| Abstract Many computer vision algorithms include a robust estimation step where model parameters are computed from a data set containing a significant proportion of outliers.  The RANSAC algorithm is possibly the most widely used robust estimator in the field of computer vision.  In the paper we show that under a broad range of conditions, RANSAC efficiency is significantly improved if hypothesis evaluation is randomized.  A new randomized (hypothesis evaluation) version of RANSAC, R-RANSAC, is introduced.  Computational savings are achieved by typically evaluating only a fraction of data points for models contaminated with outliers.  The idea is implemented in a two-step evaluation procedure.  A mathematically tractable class of statistical preverification tests for test samples is introduced.  For this class we derive an approximate relation for optimal setting of its single parameter.  The proposed pre-test is verified on both synthetic data and real-world problems and a significant increase in speed is shown. 
The Challenge of Image and Video Retrieval (| Abstract.  A novel approach to content-based image retrieval is presented.  The method supports recognition of objects under a very wide range of viewing and illumination conditions and is robust to occlusion and background clutter.  Starting from robustly detected 'distinguished regions' of data dependent shape, local affine frames are established by affine-invariant constructions exploiting invariant properties of the second moment matrix and bi-tangent points.  Direct comparison of photometrically normalised colour intensities in normalised frames facilitates robust, affine and illumination invariant, but still very selective matching.  The potential of the proposed approach is experimentally verified on FOCUS --a publicly available image database --- using a standard set of query images.  The results obtained are superior to the state of the art.  The method operates successfully on images with complex background, where the sought object covers only a fraction (around 2%) of the database image.  Examples of precise localisation of the query objects in an image are shown too. 
Combining evidence in personal identity verification systems|
Estimation of Curvature and Tangent Direction by Median Filtered Differencing|
Robust wide baseline stereo from maximally stable external regions",|
XM2VTSdb: The extended m2vts database|
Support vector machines for face authentication|
Colour Image Retrieval and Object Recognition Using the Multimodal Neighbourhood Signature|
Contextual Junction Finder|
Fast Face Localisation and Verification|
A comparison of affine region detectors|
Epipolar Geometry from three correspondences|
Junction detection using probabilistic relaxation|
Wearable face recognition aid|
Object Recognition using Local Affine Frames on Distinguished Regions|
Robust Detection of Lines using Progressive Probabilistic Hough Transform",|
On Representation and Matching of Multi-Coloured Objects|
Face Verification Using Error Correcting Output Codes|
Learning Support Vectors for Face Verification and Recognition|
Spatial and Feature Based Clustering: Applications in Image Analysis|
Local Affine Frames for Wide-Baseline Stereo|
Combining Evidence in Multimodal Personal Identity Recognition Systems|
MNS: A Novel Method for Colour Based Object Recognition and Image Retrieval|
Colour Object Recognition|
Unifying view for widebaseline stereo|
Database and Evaluation Protocol|
Audio-Visual Person Verification|
On matching scores of LDA-based face verification|
Statistical Chromaticity Models for Lip Tracking with B-splines|
AdaBoost with Totally Corrective Updates for Fast Face Detection|
Colour-based Object Recognition|
Effective Implementation of Linear Discriminant Analysis for Face Recognition and Verification|
Towards Complete Free-Form Reconstruction of Complex 3D Scenes from an Unordered Set of Uncalibrated Images|
Li Learning Support Vectors for Face Verification and Recognition|
The BANCA Database and Evaluation Protocol|
Spatial and Feature Space Clustering: Applications in Image Analysis|
On combining classifiers" IEEE Trans|
Lip-shape Dependent Face Verification|
Fast face localisation and verification by optimised robust correlation|
Local affine frames for image retrieval|
and Vaclav Hlavac| Appearance-based object recognition. 
On combinig classifiers|
Illumination invariant colour recognition|
Progressive Probabilistic Hough Transform for Line Detection|
The multi-modal neighborhood signature for modeling object color appearance and applications in object recognition and image retrieval|
Acquisition of a Large Database for Biomeatric Identity Verification,|
Learning Salient Features for Real-Time Face Verification,|
Face veirfication using error correcting output codes|
Image retrieval using local compact DCT-based representation|
Robust recognition of calibration charts|
A synthesis of fuzzy control surfaces in CMOS technologies,|
Distinguished regions for wide-baseline stereo|
Control of scene interpretation|
Periodic Textures as Distinguished Regions for Wide-Baseline Stereo Correspondence|
Using Periodic Texture as a Tool for Wide-Baseline Stereo|
XM2VTSDB: the extended M2|
Fast Face Localisation and Verification|
Colour-based object recognition under spectrally non-uniform illumination|
Object recognition using local affine frames on distinguished regions|
