VIBES: A Variational Inference Engine for Bayesian Networks| Abstract In recent years variational methods have become a popular tool for approximate inference and learning in a wide variety of probabilistic models.  For each new application, however, it is currently necessary first to derive the variational update equations, and then to implement them in application-specific code.  Each of these steps is both time consuming and error prone.  In this paper we describe a general purpose inference engine called VIBES (`Variational Inference for Bayesian Networks') which allows a wide variety of probabilistic models to be implemented and solved variationally without recourse to coding.  New models are specified either through a simple script or via a graphical interface analogous to a drawing package.  VIBES then automatically generates and solves the variational equations.  We illustrate the power and flexibility of VIBES using examples from Bayesian mixture modelling. 
Structured Variational Distributions in VIBES| Abstract Variational methods are becoming increasingly popular for the approximate solution of complex probabilistic models in machine learning, computer vision, information retrieval and many other fields.  Unfortunately, for every new application it is necessary first to derive the specific forms of the variational update equations for the particular probabilistic model being used, and then to implement these equations in applicationspecific software.  Each of these steps is both time consuming and error prone.  We have therefore recently developed a general purpose inference engine called VIBES [1] (`Variational Inference for Bayesian Networks') which allows a wide variety of probabilistic models to be implemented and solved variationally without recourse to coding.  New models are specified as a directed acyclic graph using an interface analogous to a drawing package, and VIBES then automatically generates and solves the variational equations.  The original version of VIBES assumed a fully factorized variational posterior distribution.  In this paper we present an extension of VIBES in which the variational posterior distribution corresponds to a sub-graph of the full probabilistic model.  Such structured distributions can produce much closer approximations to the true posterior distribution.  We illustrate this approach using an example based on Bayesian hidden Markov models. 
Generative Affine Localisation and Tracking| Abstract We present an extension to the Jojic and Frey (2001) layered sprite model which allows for layers to undergo affine transformations.  This extension allows for affine object pose to be inferred whilst simultaneously learning the object shape and appearance.  Learning is carried out by applying an augmented variational inference algorithm which includes a global search over a discretised transform space followed by a local optimisation.  To aid correct convergence, we use bottom-up cues to restrict the space of possible affine transformations.  We present results on a number of video sequences and show how the model can be extended to track an object whose appearance changes throughout the sequence. 
Non-linear Bayesian Image Modelling| Abstract.  In recent years several techniques have been proposed for modelling
Guided and defect modes in periodic dielectric waveguides| The nature of guided modes and defect modes in periodic dielectric waveguides is investigated computationally for model systems in two dimensions.  It is shown that defect states that exist within the band gap of guided modes can be excited to form tightly localized high-Q resonances. 
Variational Message Passing and its Applications|
The Emperor's New Clothes: The Shocking Truth About Digital Signatures and Internet Commerce|
A chessboard coloring problem|
Photonic Crystals:|
Developing a framework for a useable and useful inventory of computer-facilitated learning and support materials in Australian universities ((Evaluations and Investigations Program report 99/11)|
Clash of the Titans: Regulating the Competition between established and emerging Electronic Payment Systems|
Role of NO production in NMDA receptor-mediated neurotransmitter release in cerebral cortex|
Variational message passing|
Dynamic studies of photonic crystals,"|
Snuff dipping and oral cancer among women in the southern United States|
A small cosmic ray air shower array using plastic scintillators and a NIM/CAMAC recording system,|
eds, Gravitational Lensing: Recent Progress and Future Prospects|
Role of p-doping profile and regrowth on the static characteristics of 1|3m MQW InGaAsP-InP lasers: Experiment and modeling,. 
Structured variational distributions in VIBES|
Perspectives on Consumer Protection in the Global Electronic Marketplace -- Comment P994312 to the Federal Trade Commission|
Non-linear bayesian image modelling|
Nonlinear Bayesian image modeling"|
