Neural Networks for Predicting Kaposi's Sarcoma| often very limited.  This applies especially to the study of Kaposi's Sarcoma (KS), a vascular tumour which is common and often aggressive in patients with underlying immunosuppression (e. g.  AIDS).  The objective of this project is to deploy neural networks to predict the development of KS and to determine factors that influence the variable progression rate in HIV infected individuals by multi-variable analysis in order to define clinical end-points and provide guidelines for better patient management.  II.  Methodology A.  Neural network model and training scheme As the total number of KS+ patients available in the study is limited to about 30 cases (out of a total of about 120 AIDS patients), backpropagation-like training schemes give, in general, a poor generalisation performance for the following reasons: (1) The minimum of the cost function corresponds to the mode of the posterior weight distribution, which for sparse data is unrepresentative of the distribution as a whole (over-fitting).  (2) Cross-validation-based regularisation schemes are not applicable due to the sparseness of the data.  We therefore adopt a Bayesian approach and integrate over the weights w and weight-decay parameters ff (the `hyperparameters') to obtain the probability of the target y (binary variable indicating KS+ if y = 1 or KS-- if y = 0) conditional only on the input vector x and the training data D = fxn ; yng, as suggested by Neal [4]: P (yjx; D) = Z P (yjw; x)P (w; ffjD)dwdff (1) where P (yjw; x) is the output of an appropriate neural network (employing a sigmoidal transfer function at the output node to ensure that P (yjw; x) 2 [0; 1]) with weights w.  This integral can be solved numerically by Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC), that is, by constructing a Markov chain f(w t ; ff t )g which converges to a sample drawn from the posterior distribution P (w; ffjD) and then, after a sufficiently long equilibration period TE , approximating the integral by a sum over this sample, P (yjx; D) 1 T TE+T X t=TE+1 P (yjx; w t ) (2) By combining all weights exiting the same input node into a distinct weight group and introducing a separate weight decay parameter ff k for any such group, the relevance of an input should be reflected, in principle, by the posterior distribution of the respective weight decay parameter ff k (the method of automatic relevance determination (ARD); see [4] and [3]): For an irrelevant input this posterior distribution will be concentrated on large values of ff k such that predominantly large values will be sampled.  This will suppress the weights exiting the respective input unit and thus effectively switch its contribution off.  B.  Performance assessment Note that the objective of the neural network is the prediction of the conditional probability P (KS + jx); that is, the probability that a patient is KS+ conditional on the vector of measurements x.  This is different from the actual classification of a patient as KS+ or KS--, which is effected by subjecting the neural network output to a threshold function and classifying a patient as KS+ if the output is larger than ` 2 [0; 1]: Patient KS+ if P (KS + jx) ? ` Patient KS\Gamma if P (KS + jx) ` While the threshold parameter is commonly set to a fixed value of ` = 0:5, this would be suboptimal in our application due to the strongly unbalanced data set.  Also, any fixed choice of ` does not reflect the operational procedure in a medical decision process, where various risk factors have to be considered and the costs of wrong positive decisions have to be weighed against those of wrong negative decisions.  We therefore vary the threshold parameter ` over its entire range [0; 1] and plot the ensuing receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves of true positive predictions, P (predict KS+jpatient is KS+), against false alarms, P (predict KS+jpatient is KS\Gamma ), as suggested, for instance, in [5].  Note that the area under the ROC curve (AUROC) is a value between 0 and 1, where AUROC=0. 5 is equal to the performance of a random classifier, whereas AUROC=1 indicates a perfect prediction.  This value is more informative than a percent misclassification rate for a fixed threshold ` and will be used for model assessment in the remainder of this paper.  (In what follows, we multiply the AUROC values always by factor of 100 to give a number that is similar to percent classification, with 50 indicating random and 100 indicating perfect classification) III.  Details of the experiments We trained a one-hidden-layer MLP with m input units, H = 8 hidden tanh units 1 and all-to-all connections between adjacent layers on the cross-entropy cost function (the likelihood term) E = ln P (Djw): E = X n h yn ln P (yn jxn ; w)+(1 \Gamma yn ) ln i 1 \Gamma P (yn jxn ; w) ji (3) The network parameters were divided into m+3 weight groups as follows: (1; : : : ; m) : separate weight groups for all the weights exiting the same input unit; (m+1) : hidden-unit biases; (m+ 2) : hidden-to-output weights; (m + 3) : output-unit biases.  We put a Gaussian prior (which is equivalent to a linear weight-decay term) on each weight group: p(w gi jff g ) = exp i \Gamma ff g 2 w 2 gi j (4) where ff g is the inverse variance or weight-decay hyperparameter of the gth weight group, and w gi represents the ith weight in the gth weight group.  The hyperparameters ff g were drawn from a gamma distribution 1 Note that the number of hidden units is not critical due to the Bayesian paradigm; see [4]. 
The following paper was originally published in the Proceedings of the Tenth USENIX System Administration Conference (LISA X)| ABSTRACT In many heterogeneous UNIX networks, users require accounts with attributes that vary by machine.  This creates a complex management job.  This paper reports on a software system for creating and maintaining network accounts.  Commercial and publicly available tools are briefly examined.  Disadvantages of commercial tools are found to be high expense, difficulty of modification, and uncertainty of availability on future platforms.  NIS and NIS+ are found to lack sufficient flexibility. Kerberos is determined to be an authentication system, not a user management tool.  The Network Account Management System (NAMS) is described.  It addresses two key requirements.  First, that users be able to have a single login across machines on a network, creating the abstraction of a "network account. "Second, that these accounts allow for attributes such as home directory,expiration date, and login shell to vary by machine. 
An Analog Implementation of the Constant Average Statistics Constraint For Sensor Calibration| Abstract We use the constant statistics constraint to calibrate an array of sensors that contains gain and offset variations.  This algorithm has been mapped to analog hardware and designed and fabricated with a 2um CMOS technology.  Measured results from the chip show that the system achieves invariance to gain and offset variations of the input signal. 
The Silicon Vocal Tract| Abstract An analog VLSI circuit model of the vocal tract is described.  The vocal tract is acoustically modeled as a series of uniform cross-section tubes concatenated end-to-end.  Each section of tube is modeled as an RLC circuit whose element values are determined by its area and length with the current and voltage corresponding to volume velocity and pressure in the tube.  An analog VLSI circuit is described that these same equations.  With the proper vocal tract configuration, the circuit has been shown to simulate several vowels.  Spectral analysis of the simulated circuit output reveals that the first three formants are in the same range as the corresponding human vowel formants.  The silicon vocal tract will form the basis of a completely integrated analog VLSI articulatory speech synthesizer.  The VLSI cylindrical section analog circuit has been designed, simulated and submitted to MOSIS for fabrication in a 2m CMOS process. 
An analog integrated circuit for continuous-time gain and offset calibration of sensor arrays| Abstract.  Parameter variations cause unavoidable nonuniformities in Infra-Red Focal Plane Arrays and other integrated sensors.  Since these nonuniformities change slowly with time, calibrating sensors one-time only is not suitable--much more frequent calibration is required.  We have developed an algorithm that continually calibrates an array of sensors that contain gain and offset variations.  This algorithm has been mapped to analog hardware and designed and fabricated with a 2um CMOS technology.  Measured results from the chip show that the system achieves invariance to gain and offset variations of the input signal. 
Nonuniformity Correction Using the Constant-Statistics Constraint: Analog and Digital Implementations| ABSTRACT Current infra-red focal point arrays (IRFPAs) are limited by their inability to calibrate out component variations.  Typically, off-board digital calibration is used to correct nonuniformities in these detector arrays; special calibration images are used to calibrate the system at startup.  One-time calibration procedures such as these do not take into account other operating points and will fail to recalibrate for any drift in the parameters.  Using clues from neurobiological adaptation, we have developed the constant-statistics (CS) algorithm for nonuniformity correction of IRFPAs.  Gain and offset variations are successfully calibrated using simple assumptions of the scene under view.  We give results for calibration of 1D and 2D images using a digital implementation.  We also show that the constantstatistics algorithm compares favorably to an existing LMS-based nonuniformity correction algorithm by Scribner 1 in terms of convergence rate and computational complexity.  Finally, we review the results of analog circuitry that was designed and fabricated with a 2um CMOS technology.  Measured results from our test-chip show that the system achieves invariance to gain and offset variations of the input signal.  This hardware is targeted for eventual use for in-and behind-the focal plane implementations. 
Identification of High p? Particles with the STAR-RICH Detector| Abstract The STAR-RICH detector extends the particle identification capabilities of the STAR experiment for charged hadrons at mid-rapidity.  This detector represents the first use of a proximity-focusing CsI-based RICH detector in a collider experiment.  It provides identification of pions and kaons up to 3 GeV/c and protons up to 5 GeV/c.  The characteristics and performance of the device in the inaugural RHIC run are described. 
Efficient Object Recognition Using Color| Abstract A real-time prototype system for identifying soda cans uses histogram indexing with only 16 colors, with excellent results.  The final implementation
1996 SPIE Symposium on Visual Communications and Image Processing Adaptive Scale Detection| Abstract Most image processing and computer vision algorithms assume knowledge of the proper spatial scale in the image.  We propose an automatic technique that adaptively sets the proper spatial scale based on the size of local features in the image.  We discuss an analog VLSI circuit implementation that uses this method to automatically determine the proper scale based on a dynamical system model that continuously searches scale space.  Though this technique is motivated by analog circuit concepts, we show results for a digital implementation for image enhancements of mamograms.  Digital implementations must discretizes the scale space and perform an optimization over this finite set. 
I would like to thank| Abstract Government Phonology is a principles-and-parameters approach where principles are inviolable and language-specific facts are expressed by parameters.  Some analyses, however, have been proposed which involve a conflict between different principles, resolved on a language-particular basis (cf. 
Further probabilistic analysis of the Fisher-Kolmogorov-Petrovskii-Piscounov equation: one sided travelling-waves| Abstract Using probabilistic methods alone, we prove the classical result that the FKPP travelling wave equation with monotone solutions bounded in [0, 1] and supported on [0,
Implementing Radial Basis Functions Using Bump-Resistor Networks| Abstract--Radial Basis Function (RBF) networks provide a powerful learning architecture for neural networks [6].  We have implemented a RBF network in analog VLSI using the concept of bump-resistors.  A bump-resistor is a nonlinear resistor whose conductance is a Gaussian-like function of the difference of two other voltages.  The width of the Gaussian basis functions may be continuously varied so that the aggregate interpolating function varies from a nearest-neighbor lookup, piecewise constant function to a globally smooth function.  The bump-resistor methodology extends to arbitrary dimensions while still preserving the radiality of the basis functions.  The feedforward network architecture needs no additional circuitry other than voltage sources and the 1D bump-resistors.  A nine-transistor variation of the Delbruck bump circuit is used to compute the Gaussian-like basis functions [2].  Below threshold the current output fits a Gaussian extremely well, see Figure 1.  Figure 3 shows that the shape of the function deviates from the Gaussian shape above threshold.  The width of the bump can to be varied by almost an order of magnitude (see Figure 4).  The Delbruck bump circuit is shown in Figure A follower aggregation network shown in Figure 5 computes an average of the inputs voltages c i weighted by conductance values g i [4]: Y = P i c i g i P i g i (1) The bump current is used to control the conductance of the resistors in Figure 5 such that g i = G(x\Gamma t i ) where t i is the voltage representing the center location of each bump-resistor.  The circuit now computes: Y = P i c i G(x \Gamma t i ) P i G(x \Gamma t i ) (2)
A Continuous-Time Analog Circuit for Computing Time Delays Between Signals| Abstract--We describe an analog VLSI circuit that computes the time delay between an arbitrary input signal and its delayed version.  Versions of this circuit will be used as the basic computational elements for human auditory localization models in both the horizontal and vertical directions.  Since the circuit uses subthreshold CMOS circuitry, chip measurements show that delays ranging over five orders of magnitude can be recovered.  The circuit delays the first input signal by two distinct time-constants and correlates each with the second input signal.  The correlation values at the two points are then integrated and used to compute a finite-difference derivative that dynamically adjusts the time constants until an optimal delay is found.  This paper describes the first continuous-time circuit for computing delays between arbitrary signals. 
Modeling Traffic Jams with Cellular Automata| Abstract: The module touches on several topics of mathematical interest.  Mathematical modeling in general is discussed briefly at the start, and then some details regarding traffic models are given.  Cellular automata (CA), both deterministic and probabilistic, are introduced as a method for modeling traffic flow.  The software package Mirek's Cellebration (MCell) is presented as a way of handling the long-run forecasting of different CAs.  .  Informal Description: The concept of cellular automata is motivated by easy-to-follow examples.  While much of the material in the module concerns simple deterministic CAs, there is a section at the end on probabilistic CAs.  Instructors could spend as much or as little time as desired on each type.  MCell is a software package that is available for free download, and students will enjoy trying out its many interesting features.  Regarding traffic, students can easily experiment with initial densities and other features that affect the way traffic flows.  There are plenty of exercises throughout the module that give students the opportunity to solidify the concepts for themselves.  .  Target Audience: This module is designed for advanced high school students and lower level college students.  It would be a good module for a liberal arts mathematics class.  .  Prerequisites: This module assumes some familiarity with computers and downloading software from the internet.  It assumes that the students have had high school algebra. 
Automatic Scale Detection| ABSTRACT Most image processing and computer vision algorithms assume knowledge of the proper spatial scale in the image.  We propose an automatic technique that adaptively sets the proper spatial scale based on the size of local features in the image.  We discuss an analog VLSI circuit implementation that uses this method to automatically determine the proper scale based on a dynamic system model that continuously searches scale space.  Though this technique is motivated by analog circuit concepts, we show results for a digital implementation for image enhancements of mammograms.  Digital implementations must discretize the scale space and perform an optimization over this finite set. 
Analog Hardware Implementation of Continuous-Time Adaptive Filter Structures| Abstract We have implemented a four-tap adaptive filter in a continuous-time analog VLSI circuit.  Since an ideal delay is impossible to implement in continuous-time hardware, we implemented the delay line as a cascade of low-pass filters (called the gamma filter).  Since many years of research in our lab has shown that the gamma filter outperforms the ideal delay line for a wide range of applications, the gamma filter should not be considered merely a crude approximation of the ideal delay line.  We show measured results from an analog chip that solves the problem of system identification--identifying an unknown linear circuit from its input/output relationship.  Furthermore, we believe that a cascade of all-pass filters (called the Laguerre filter) may potentially outperform the gamma.  We have built an adaptive Laguerre filter and show that its measured convergence rate is superior to that of the gamma.  Finally, rather than perform gradient descent on a multimodal error function to determine a single optimal time constant, we propose multi-scale realizations of these delay line structures.  Z -1 Z -1 Z W1 W2 W3 W0 x k x k-1 x k-2 x k-3 y k ideal memory W1 W2 W3 W0 + - + - +x o x 1 x 2 x 3 (t) (t) y (t) (t) (t) (t) gamma memory (a) (b)
A Chaotic Oscillator Cell in Subthreshold CMOS for Spatio-Temporal Simulation| Abstract This paper reports on the design and experimental results of a subthreshold-CMOS chaotic oscillator suitable for single-chip VLSI synthesis of
Analog VLSI Implementations of Continuous-Time Memory Structures| Abstract The continuous-time implementation of the popular transversal filter is problematic since it is impossible to implement an ideal time delay in continuous-time hardware.  We believe that building an ideal time delay would not be worthwhile anyway since the ideal time delay has shown to be inferior to lowpass (Gamma) and all-pass (Laguerre) stages in discrete-time simulations.  We demonstrate feedforward analog VLSI implementations of the Gamma and Laguerre memory structures and show measurements of their performance.  We also show through simulation of a system identification problem that the Laguerre filter is expected to converge faster and be more robust to the noise and offsets that we expect in an analog VLSI implementation. 
A Subthreshold-CMOS Chaotic Oscillator| Abstract This paper reports on the design of a subthreshold-CMOS chaotic oscillator based on Chua's circuit.  The circuit is autonomous and generates chaotic signals from three state variables in a manner analogous to a Chua circuit.  Previous CMOS IC versions of the Chua
Exponential growth rates & large deviations for a typed branching diffusion| Abstract We find the almost sure rate of exponential growth of particles, D(
Exponential growth-rates in a typed branching diusion| Abstract We find the almost sure rate of exponential growth of particles, D(
Analog hardware implementation of adaptive filter structures,"|
Segments and Feet', Paper presented at the 2002 Conference on English Phonology,|
Licensing Inheritance: an integrated theory of neutralisation|
Continuous-time calibration of VLSI sensors for gain and offset variations|
The scaling of subjective roughness and smoothness|
Migration, Unemployment and Development: a Two-sector Analysis,"|
"Copper and Shipping in the Eighteenth Century|
Handbook of Mathematics and Computational Science|
Rigid Body Motion from Range Image Sequences",|
"Conceptual Design report for Solenoidal Tracker at RHIC", (The STAR Collaboration),|
Ray method for elastodynamic radiation from a slip zone of arbitrary shape,|
Hydrophone Measurement In Diagnostic Ultrasound Fields,|
Sensitivity Considerations For PVDF Hydrophones Using The Spot-Poled Membrane Design,|
Dissertation,|
A comparisonofethical evaluations ofbusiness school faculty and students: a pilot study|
A Neuromorphic Monaural Sound Localizer|
Jr|,. 
Inhibition of rat 5a-reductases by finasteride: Evidence for isozyme differences in the mechanism of inhibition|
The affective implications of perceived congruence with culture dimensions during organizational transformation|
Improved Methodology for Analyzing Local and Distant Recurrence,|
^Foot and ankle motion analysis system instrumentation, calibration and validation,~|
Real-Time Computer Vision and Robotics Using Analog VLSI Circuits|
Logical vs| Physical File System Backup. 
Plant-wide feedback control performance assessment using an expert system framework|
The search for the quark-gluon plasma| hep-ph/9602235,. 
Relationship between cystic duct diameter and the presence of cholelithiasis|
The National Science Foundation Workshop on Undergraduate Education in Electrical Engineering,|
On means and variances in aquatic food chains and recruitment to the fisheries|
Stable decomposition of classifying spaces of finite abelian p-groups,|
Hand-Signs for ideas should not beused in the education of the Deaf|
How Do They Know Their Customers So Well ?|
Magnetic properties of the native oxide in metal/native oxide multilayers,|
Analog hardware for detecting discontinuities in early vision|
Discrete and reversible vacuole-like dilations induced by osmomechanical perturbation of neurons|
Analog models for early vision|
Care and Motion Analysis Technology (1st ed),|
Numerical analysis of the acoustic signature of a surface breaking crack|
A new appraoch to surface reconstruction: the coupled depth/slope model|
Resistive fuses: analog hardware for detecting discontinuities in early vision"|
An Infogeometric Approach to Telerobotics",|
Detecting obstacles in range imagery|
Selecting honey bees for resistance to Varroa jacobsoni|
"House Passed Job Benefit For Disabled|
Bit-depth of color memory [arvo|
The role of color categorization in object recognition [arvo abstract]|
The role of extreme color quantization in object recognition|
The Role of Massive Color Quantization in Object Recognition|
The Potential of Interactive Multimedia on CD-ROM to Enhance Laboratory Work in Physical Science and Engineering|
Quantitative MRI volume changes in late onset schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease compared to normal controls|
On the interpretation of syllogisms|
Jr|,. 
Hyperlexia in infantile autism|
Performance assessment measures for univariate feedback control,|
Prediction of success on a distant Pacific island: Peace Corps style|
IHS transform for the integration of radar imagery with other remotely sensed data|
The Effect of Financial Liberalization on the Capital Structure and Investment Decisions of Indonesian Manufacturing Establishments, The World Bank Economic Review,|
Australian Aboriginal and Islander mathematics|
Facts and fallacies of Aboriginal number systems|
Datavoice: A Microcomputer-Based General Purpose VoiceControlled Data-Collection System|
Locally recurrent networks with multiple time-scales|
"970)| ^Migration, Unemployment and Development: A Two-Sector Analysis,~. 
JV, Barta PE, and Folstein SE| Single photon emission computed tomographic blood flow and magnetic resonance volume imaging of basal ganglia in Huntington's disease. 
The ninaA gene required for visual transduction in Drosophila encodes a homologue of cyclosporin A-binding protein|
Rheologic behavior of deoxyhemoglobin S gels|
The kinetics of the sol-gel transformation of deoxyhemoglobin S by continuous monitoring of viscosity|
Pressoreceptor-autonomic oscillation: a probable cause of vasomotor waves|
=944234&type=pdf&coll= Portal&dl=%|
Theories of Phonological Representation and Nasal Consonants in Spanish|
Autosegmental phonology, lexical phonology, and Spanish nasals|
Towards a Lexical Analysis of Sound Change in Progress|
`The Morphology of Spanish Clitics'|
Assembly of glycoprotein-80 adhesion complexes in dictyostelium|
An engineering evaluation of the Oxford External Fixator with sliding clamps: fixator stiffness and fracture healing assessment|
Socioeconomic status and physical health, how are they related? An empirical study based on twins reared apart and twins reared together|
On the Noether{Lefschetz theorem and some remarks on codimension-two cycles,|
Nonuniformity correction of infrared image sequences using the constant-statistics constraint|
