Low-Power Silicon Spiking Neurons and Axons| Abstract This paper presents low-power versions of two circuits often used in analog VLSI models of neural systems.  The circuits model the spiking behavior of the axon hillock and the pulse propagation of axons. 
Speech Recognition Experiments with Silicon Auditory Models| Abstract We have developed a real-time system to transform an audio signal into several specialized representations of sound.  The system uses analog circuit models of biological audition to compute these representations.  We report on a speech recognizer that uses this system for feature extraction, and we evaluate the performance of this speech recognition system on a speaker-independent 13-word recognition task. 
Silicon Auditory Processors as Computer Peripherals| Abstract Several research groups are implementing analog integrated circuit models of biological auditory processing.  The outputs of these circuit models have taken several forms, including video format for monitor display [1,2], simple scanned output for oscilloscope display [3], and parallel analog outputs suitable for data-acquisition systems [4].  In this paper, we describe an alternative output method for silicon auditory models, suitable for direct interface to digital computers.  As a prototype of this method, we describe an integrated circuit model of temporal adaptation in the auditory nerve, that functions as a peripheral to a workstation running the Unix operating system.  We show data from a working hybrid system that includes the auditory model, a digital interface, and asynchronous software; this system produces a real-time X-Windows display of the response of the auditory nerve model. 
WINNER-TAKE-ALL NETWORKS OF O(N| ABSTRACT We have designed, fabricated, and tested a series of compact CMOS integrated circuits that realize the winner-take-all function.  These analog, continuous-time circuits use only O(n) of interconnect to perform this function.  We have also modified the winner-take-all circuit, realizing a circuit that computes local nonlinear inhibition.  Two general types of inhibition mediate activity in neural systems: subtractive inhibition, which sets a zero level for the computation, and multiplicative (nonlinear) inhibition, which regulates the gain of the computation.  We report a physical realization of general nonlinear inhibition in its extreme form, known as winner-take-all.  We have designed and fabricated a series of compact, completely functional CMOS integrated circuits that realize the winner-take-all function, using the full analog nature of the medium.  This circuit has been used successfully as a component in several VLSI sensory systems that perform auditory localization (Lazzaro and Mead, in press) and visual stereopsis (Mahowald and Delbruck, 1988).  Winnertake-all circuits with over 170 inputs function correctly in these sensory systems.  We have also modified this global winner-take-all circuit, realizing a circuit that computes local nonlinear inhibition.  The circuit allows multiple winners in the network, and is well suited for use in systems that represent a feature space topographically and that process several features in parallel.  We have designed, fabricated, and tested a CMOS integrated circuit that computes locally the winner-take-all function of spatially ordered input. 
Temporal Adaptation in a Silicon Auditory Nerve| Abstract Many auditory theorists consider the temporal adaptation of the auditory nerve a key aspect of speech coding in the auditory periphery.  Experiments with models of auditory localization and pitch perception also suggest temporal adaptation is an important element of practical auditory processing.  I have designed, fabricated, and successfully tested an analog integrated circuit that models many aspects of auditory nerve response, including temporal adaptation. 
Silicon Baroreceptors: Modeling Cardiovascular Pressure Transduction in Analog VLSI| Abstract This paper describes an analog VLSI model of the representation of blood pressure used in a neural control system in the cardiovascular system.  The chip computes the representation in real time, using analog continuoustime processing.  We apply a variety of pressure signals to the chip, confirming that the chip models known physiological responses.  We are modeling this representation as a first step to understanding the neural computation of cardiovascular control; we hope to apply this knowledge to nonlinear dynamical control problems in the chemical industry. 
A case for network musical performance| ABSTRACT A Network Musical Performance (NMP) occurs when a group of musicians, located at different physical locations, interact over a network to perform as they would if located in the same room.  In this paper, we present a case for NMP as a practical Internet application, and describe a method to ameliorate the effect of late and lost packets on NMP.  We describe an NMP system that embodies this concept, that combines several existing standards (MIDI, MPEG 4 Structured Audio, RTP/AVP, and SIP) with a new RTP packetization for MIDI performance.  We analyze NMP experiments performed on CalREN2 hosts on the UC Berkeley, Stanford, and Caltech campuses. 
Silicon Models for Auditory Scene Analysis| Abstract We are developing special-purpose, low-power analog-to-digital converters for speech and music applications, that feature analog circuit models of biological audition to process the audio signal before conversion.  This paper describes our most recent converter design, and a working system that uses several copies of the chip to compute multiple representations of sound from an analog input.  This multi-representation system demonstrates the plausibility of inexpensively implementing an auditory scene analysis approach to sound processing. 
A Silicon Model of an Auditory Neural Representation of Spectral Shape| Abstract The paper describes an analog integrated circuit that implements an auditory neural representation of spectral shape.  The circuit contains silicon models of the cochlea, inner hair cells, spiral ganglion cells, and the neurons that compute an amplitude-invariant representation of spectral shape.  The chip uses the temporal information in each silicon auditory-nerve fiber to compute this final representation.  The chip was fabricated and fully tested; the paper includes data comparing the silicon auditory-nerve representation and the final representation.  The 9000 transistor chip computes all outputs in real time using analog continuous-time processing. 
Anawake: Signal-Based Power Management For Digital Signal Processing Systems| Abstract Single-chip, low-power, programmable digital signal processing systems are capable of hosting complete speech processing applications, while consuming a few milliwatts of average power.  We present a power management architecture that decreases the average power consumption of these systems to 3--10 microwatts, in applications where speech signals are present with a sufficiently low duty cycle.  In this architecture, a micropower analog signal processing system, Anawake, continuously analyzes the incoming signal, and controls the power consumption of the DSP system in a signal-dependent way.  We estimate system power consumption for Anawake designs optimized for different peak-speech-signal to average-background-noise ratios. 
A Delay-Line Based Motion Detection Chip| Abstract Inspired by a visual motion detection model for the rabbit retina and by a computational architecture used for early audition in the barn owl, we have designed a chip that employs a correlation model to report the one-dimensional field motion of a scene in real time.  Using subthreshold analog VLSI techniques, we have fabricated and successfully tested a 8000 transistor chip using a standard MOSIS process. 
Biologically-based Auditory Signal Processing in Analog VLSI| Abstract This paper reviews many recent analog silicon implementations of computational models of neural auditory processing.  These implementations are based on physiological and psychophysical knowledge about biological auditory systems. 
A multi-sender asynchronous extension to the AER protocol| Abstract The address-event representation (AER) is an asynchronous point-to-point communications protocol for silicon neural systems.  This paper describes an extension of the AER protocol that allows multiple AER senders to share a common bus.  A fully-functional silicon implementation of the extended protocol is described, as well as a functional board-level system of several of these chips sharing a common bus. 
JPEG Quality Transcoding Using Neural Networks Trained With a Perceptual Error Measure| Abstract A JPEG Quality Transcoder (JQT) converts a JPEG image file that was encoded with low image quality to a larger JPEG image file with reduced visual artifacts, without access to the original uncompressed image.  In this paper, we describe technology for JQT design that takes a pattern recognition approach to the problem, using a database of gamma-corrected images to train statistical models of the artifacts introduced through JPEG compression.  In the training procedure for these models, we use a model of human visual perception as an error measure.  Our current prototype system removes 31. 2% of the artifacts introduced by moderate compression, as measured on an independent test image database using a perceptual metric; this improvement results in an average PSNR reduction of 0. 56 dB. 
Silicon models of auditory localization,|
Silicon models of pitch perception,"|
CNS-1 architecture specification|
Winner-Take-All Networks of Complexity|
Silicon Auditory Processor as Computer Peripherals,|
Silicon auditory processors as computer preipherals,|
Compiling MPEG 4 structured audio into C|
Speech-enabling applications|
A Micropower Analog VLSI HMM State Decoder for Wordspotting|
Silicon modeling of pitch perception|
