Comparing integrate-and-fire models estimated using intracellular and extracellular data| Abstract We have recently developed a maximum-likelihood (ML) method for estimating integrateand-fire-based stimulus encoding models that can be used even when only extracellular spike train data is available.  Here we derive the MLestimator given the full intracellular voltage trace and apply both the extracellular-only and intracellular method to responses recorded in vitro, allowing a direct comparison of the model fits within a unified statistical framework.  Both models are able to capture the behavior of these cells under dynamic stimulus conditions to a high degree of temporal precision, although we observe significant differences in the stochastic behavior of the two models. 
Biases in white noise analysis due to non-Poisson spike generation| Abstract White noise analysis methods for characterizing neurons typically ignore the dynamics of neural spike generation, assuming that spikes arise from an inhomogeneous Poisson process.  We show that when spikes arise from a leakyintegrate-and--re mechanism, a classical white noise estimate of a neuron's temporal receptive -eld is signi-cantlybiased.  We develop a modi-ed estimator for linear characterization of such neurons, and demonstrate its e/ectiveness in simulation.  Finally, we apply it to physiological data and show that spiking dynamics may account for changes observed in the receptive -elds measured at di/erent contrasts. 
Maximum likelihood estimation of a stochastic integrate-and-fire neural encoding model| Abstract We examine a cascade encoding model for neural response in which a linear filtering stage is followed by a noisy, leaky, integrate-andfire spike generation mechanism.  This model provides a biophysically more realistic alternative to models based on Poisson (memoryless) spike generation, and can effectively reproduce a variety of spiking behaviors seen in vivo.  We describe the maximum likelihood estimator for the model parameters, given only extracellular spike train responses (not intracellular voltage data).  Specifically, we prove that the log likelihood function is concave and thus has an essentially unique global maximum that can be found using gradient ascent techniques.  We develop an efficient algorithm for computing the maximum likelihood solution, demonstrate the effectiveness of the resulting estimator with numerical simulations, and discuss a method of testing the model's validity using time-rescaling and density evolution techniques. 
Maximum Likelihood Estimation of a Stochastic Integrate-and-Fire Neural Model| Abstract Recent work has examined the estimation of models of stimulus-driven neural activity in which some linear filtering process is followed by a nonlinear, probabilistic spiking stage.  We analyze the estimation of one such model for which this nonlinear step is implemented by a noisy, leaky, integrate-and-fire mechanism with a spike-dependent aftercurrent.  This model is a biophysically plausible alternative to models with Poisson (memory-less) spiking, and has been shown to effectively reproduce various spiking statistics of neurons in vivo.  However, the problem of estimating the model from extracellular spike train data has not been examined in depth.  We formulate the problem in terms of maximum likelihood estimation, and show that the computational problem of maximizing the likelihood is tractable.  Our main contribution is an algorithm and a proof that this algorithm is guaranteed to find the global optimum with reasonable speed.  We demonstrate the effectiveness of our estimator with numerical simulations.  A central issue in computational neuroscience is the characterization of the functional relationship between sensory stimuli and neural spike trains.  A common model for this relationship consists of linear filtering of the stimulus, followed by a nonlinear, probabilistic spike generation process.  The linear filter is typically interpreted as the neuron's "receptive field," while the spiking mechanism accounts for simple nonlinearities like rectification and response saturation.  Given a set of stimuli and (extracellularly) recorded spike times, the characterization problem consists of estimating both the linear filter and the parameters governing the spiking mechanism.  One widely used model of this type is the Linear-Nonlinear-Poisson (LNP) cascade model, in which spikes are generated according to an inhomogeneous Poisson process, with rate determined by an instantaneous ("memoryless") nonlinear function of the filtered input.  This model has a number of desirable features, including conceptual simplicity and computational tractability.  Additionally, reverse correlation analysis provides a simple unbiased estimator for the linear filter [5], and the properties of estimators (for both the linear filter and static nonlinearity) have been thoroughly analyzed, even for the case of highly non-symmetric or "naturalistic" stimuli [12].  One important drawback of the LNP model,
Encoding multiple orientations in a recurrent network| Abstract Models containing recurrent connections amongst the cells within a population can account for a range of empirical data on orientation selectivity in striate cortex.  However, existing recurrent models are unable to veridically encode more than one orientation at a time.  Underlying this inability is an inherent limitation in the variety of activity pro"les that can be stably maintained.  We propose a new recurrent model that can form a broader range of stable population activity patterns.  We demonstrate that these patterns preserve information about multiple orientations present in the population inputs.  This preservation has signi"cant computational consequences when information encoded in several populations must be integrated to perform behavioral tasks, such as visual discrimination. 
NIPS 17|
