New Spreading Transforms for Fading Channels| Abstract We introduce a new class of symbol-spreading transforms that are well-suited for use in error-control coding systems operating in fading channels.  These unitary transforms have the property that they allow for the unambigous determination of input symbols from just a single correctly received output symbol.  The transforms can be represented using factor graphs that allow for "fast" encoding.  Our simulations show that on channels with fading or interference, systems based on these new transforms can greatly outperform previously proposed systems that use Walsh-Hadamard transforms. 
Low Latency Decoding of EG LDPC Codes| Abstract We describe simple iterative decoders for low-density parity check codes based on Euclidean geometries, suitable for practical VLSI implementation in applications requiring very fast decoders.  The decoders are based on shuffled and replica-shuffled versions of iterative bit-flipping and quantized weighted bit-flipping schemes.  The proposed decoders converge faster and provide better ultimate performance than standard bit-flipping decoders.  We present simulations that illustrate the performance versus complexity trade-offs for thes decoders.  We can show in some cases through importance sampling that no significant error-floor exists. 
Iterative Quantization Using Codes On Graphs| Abstract We study codes on graphs combined with an iterative message passing algorithm for quantization.  Specifically, we consider the binary erasure quantization (BEQ) problem which is the dual of the binary erasure channel (BEC) coding problem.  We show that duals of capacity achieving codes for the BEC yield codes which approach the minimum possible rate for the BEQ.  In contrast, low density parity check codes cannot achieve the minimum rate unless their density grows at least logarithmically with block length.  Furthermore, we show that duals of efficient iterative decoding algorithms for the BEC yield efficient encoding algorithms for the BEQ.  Hence our results suggest that graphical models may yield near optimal codes in source coding as well as in channel coding and that duality plays a key role in such constructions. 
Replica Shuffled Belief Propagation Decoding of LDPC Codes| Abstract Replica shuffled belief propagation decoders of low-density parity-check codes are presented.  The proposed decoders converge faster than standard and shuffled belief propagation decoders.  Simulations show that the new decoders offer good performance versus complexity trade-offs. 
Tangible interaction + graphical interpretation: a new approach to 3D modeling| Abstract Construction toys are a superb medium for creating geometric models.  We argue that such toys, suitably instrumented or sensed, could be the inspiration for a new generation of easy-to-use, tangible modeling systems---especially if the tangible modeling is combined with graphical-interpretation techniques for enhancing nascent models automatically.  The three key technologies needed to realize this idea are embedded computation, vision-based acquisition, and graphical interpretation.  We sample these technologies in the context of two novel modeling systems: physical building blocks that self-describe, interpret, and decorate the structures into which they are assembled; and a system for scanning, interpreting, and animating clay figures. 
Rateless Codes on Noisy Channels| Abstract We study the performance of the newly invented rateless codes (LT- and Raptor codes) on noisy channels such as the BSC and the AWGN channel.  We find that Raptor codes outperform LT codes, and have good performance on a wide variety of noisy channels. 
Bethe free energy, Kikuchi approximations and belief propagation algorithms| Abstract Belief propagation (BP) was only supposed to work for tree-like networks but works surprisingly well in many applications involving networks with loops, including turbo codes.  However, there
Distributed Source Coding Using Serially-Concatenated-Accumulate Codes| Abstract We describe a practical method for distributed compression of q-ary sources using multi-level serially-concatenated-accumulate codes.  Our approach works well at high compression rates, and allows for graceful and incremental rate-adaptivity.  Simulations show that the compression efficiency is near the information-theoretic limits for correlations between sources that obey a Gaussian or Laplacian distribution. 
Constructing Free Energy Approximations and Generalized Belief Propagation Algorithms| Abstract Important inference problems in statistical physics, computer vision, error-correcting coding theory, and artificial intelligence can all be reformulated as the computation of marginal probabilities on factor graphs.  The belief propagation (BP) algorithm is an efficient way to solve these problems that is exact when the factor graph is a tree, but only approximate when the factor graph has cycles.  We show that BP fixed points correspond to the stationary points of the Bethe approximation to the free energy for a factor graph.  We explain how to obtain regionbased free energy approximations that improve the Bethe approximation, and corresponding generalized belief propagation (GBP) algorithms.  We emphasize the conditions a free energy approximation must satisfy in order to be a "valid" approximation.  We describe the relationship between four different methods that can be used to generate valid approximations: the "Bethe method," the "junction graph method," the "cluster variation method," and the "region graph method. " The region graph method is the most general of these methods, and it subsumes all the other methods.  Region graphs also provide the natural graphical setting for GBP algorithms.  We explain how to obtain three different versions of GBP algorithms and show that their fixed points will always correspond to stationary points of the region graph approximation to the free energy.  We also show that the region graph approximation is exact when the region graph has no cycles. 
A Conversation about the Bethe Free Energy and Sum-Product| Abstract This discussion document records an email conversation in preparation for the Trieste meeting.  Background The result that `belief propagation fixed-points are zero gradient points of the Bethe free energy' (Yedidia, 2000; Yedidia et al. , 2000c)
Sparse Factor Graph Representations of Reed-Solomon and Related Codes| Abstract We present sparse factor graph representations of Reed-Solomon codes based on a fast Fourier transform.  These representations can be used to create encoders, or messagepassing decoders that use soft input information.  We discuss various simplifications and transformations of the factor graph representations that may be useful.  Finally, we show that other interesting codes can be represented using sparse fast transform factor graphs. 
Generalized Belief Propagation| Abstract Belief propagation (BP) was only supposed to work for tree-like networks but works surprisingly well in many applications involving networks with loops, including turbo codes.  However, there
Understanding belief propagation and its generalizations|
Generating code representations suitable for belief propagation decoding,|
Building Virtual Structures With Physical Blocks (Demo Summary)",|
Understanding belief propagation and its generalization|
and YWeiss| Understanding belief propagation and its generalizations. 
Bethe free energies, Kikuchi approximations, and belief propagation algorithms|
How to expand around mean-field theory using high-temperature expansions|
"Replica Shuffled Iterative Decoding,"|
Generalised belief propagation|
"Bethe free energy, Kikuchi approximations, and belief propagation algorithms,"|
An idiosyncratic journey beyond mean field theory|
Characterizing belief propagation and its generalizations|
Variational theory for disordered vortex lattices|
The Fully Frustrated Ising Model in Infinite Dimensions,|
Building Virtual Structures with Physical Blocks|
