Applications of random field theory to electrophysiology| Abstract The analysis of electrophysiological data often produces results that are continuous in one or more dimensions, e. g. , time--frequency maps, peri-stimulus time histograms, and cross-correlation functions.  Classical inferences made on the ensuing statistical maps must control family wise error (FWE) when searching across the map's dimensions.  In this paper, we borrow multiple comparisons procedures, established in neuroimaging, and apply them to electrophysiological data.  These procedures use random field theory (RFT) to adjust p-values from statistics that are functions of time and/or frequency.  This RFT adjustment for continuous statistical processes plays the same role as a Bonnferonni adjustment in the context of discrete statistical tests.  Here, by analysing the time--frequency decompositions of single channel EEG data we show that RFT adjustments can be used in the analysis of electrophysiological data and illustrate the advantages of this method over existing approaches.  2004 Elsevier Ireland Ltd.  All rights reserved. 
Technical Note Posterior probability maps and SPMs| Abstract This technical note describes the construction of posterior probability maps that enable conditional or Bayesian inferences about regionally specific effects in neuroimaging.  Posterior probability maps are images of the probability or confidence that an activation exceeds some specified threshold, given the data.  Posterior probability maps (PPMs) represent a complementary alternative to statistical parametric maps (SPMs) that are used to make classical inferences.  However,
Activation in Posterior Superior Temporal Sulcus Parallels Parameter Inducing the Percept of Animacy| London WC1N 3BG teristics trigger neural structures that respond more to United Kingdom animate than to inanimate motion.  Previous behavioral studies identified certain characteristics that might play a role in inducing the percept of animacy.  Isolated objects whose movement is not explainable by simple Summary "newtonian" mechanics seem to be self-propelled, which increases the appearance of animacy
Psychophysiological and Modulatory Interactions in Neuroimaging| In this paper we introduce the idea of explaining responses, in one cortical area, in terms of an interaction between the influence of another area and some experimental (sensory or task-related) parameter.  We refer to these effects as psychophysiological interactions and relate them to interactions based solely on experimental factors (i. e. , psychological interactions), in factorial designs, and interactions among neurophysiological measurements (i. e. , physiological interactions).  We have framed psychophysiological interactions in terms of functional integration by noting that the degree to which the activity in one area can be predicted, on the basis of activity in another, corresponds to the contribution of the second to the first, where this contribution can be related to effective connectivity.  A psychophysiological interaction means that the contribution of one area to another changes significantly with the experimental or psychological context. Alternatively these interactions can be thought of as a contribution-dependent change in regional responses to an experimental or psychological factor.  In other words the contribution can be thought of as modulating the responses elicited by a particular stimulus or psychological process.  The potential importance of this approach lies in (i) conferring a degree of functional specificity on this aspect of effective connectivity and (ii) providing a model of modulation, where the contribution from a distal area can be considered to modulate responses to the psychological or stimulusspecific factor defining the interaction.  Although distinct in neurobiological terms, these are equivalent perspectives on the same underlying interaction.  We illustrate these points using a functional magnetic resonance imaging study of attention to visual motion and a position emission tomography study of visual priming.  We focus on interactions among extrastriate, inferotemporal, and posterior parietal regions during visual processing, under different attentional and perceptual conditions.  r 1997 Academic Press
Event-Related fMRI| Abstract: We present a method for detecting event-related responses in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).  The occurrence of time-locked activations is formulated in terms of the general linear model, i. e. , multiple linear regression.  This permits the use of established statistical techniques that correct for multiple comparisons in the context of spatially smooth and serially correlated data.  Responses are modelled using event-related temporal basis functions.  Inferences are then made about all components of the model, using the F-ratio at all voxels in the image, to produce a statistical parametric map (SPM5F6).  This method allows for the experimental design to relate the timing of events to the acquisition of data to give a temporal resolution (with respect to the event-related response) far better than the scanning repeat time. 
TECHNICAL NOTE Testing for Anatomically Specified Regional Effects| Abstract: We present a simple method that allows statistical inferences to be made about the significance of regional effects in statistical parametric maps (SPMs) when the approximate location of the effect is specified in advance.  The test can be thought of as analogous to assessing activations with uncorrected P values based on the height of SPMs but, in this instance, using the spatial extent or volume of the nearest activated region.  The advantage of the current test is that it eschews a correction for multiple comparisons even though the exact location of the expected activation may not be known. 
Technical Note Mixed-effects and fMRI studies| This note concerns mixed-effect (MFX) analyses in multisession functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies.  It clarifies the relationship between mixed-effect analyses and the two-stage bsummary statisticsQ procedure (Holmes, A. 
A Unified Statistical Approach for Determining Significant Signals in Images of Cerebral Activation| Abstract: We present a unified statistical theory for assessing the significance of apparent signal observed in noisy difference images.  The results are usable in a wide range of applications, including astrophysics, but are discussed with particular reference to images which represent changes in cerebral blood flow elicited by a specific cognitive or sensorimotor task.  Our main result is an estimate of the p-value for local maxima of Gaussian, t, # 2 and F fields over search regions of any shape or size in any number of dimensions.  This unifies the p-values for large search areas in 2-D (Friston et al.  1991), large search regions in 3-D (Worsley et al. 
Comparing Dynamic Causal Models| Abstract This article describes the use of Bayes factors for comparing Dynamic Causal Models (DCMs).  DCMs are used to make inferences about effective connectivity from functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) data.  These inferences, however, are contingent upon assumptions about model structure, that is, the connectivity pattern between the regions included in the model.  Given the current lack of detailed knowledge on anatomical connectivity in the human brain, there are often considerable degrees of freedom when defining the connectional structure of DCMs.  In addition, many plausible scientific hypotheses may exist about which connections are changed by experimental manipulation, and a formal procedure for directly comparing these competing hypotheses is highly desirable.  In this article, we show how Bayes factors can be used to guide choices about model structure, both with regard to the intrinsic connectivity pattern and the contextual modulation of individual connections.  The combined use of Bayes factors and DCM thus allows one to evaluate competing scientific theories about the architecture of large-scale neural networks and the neuronal interactions that mediate perception and cognition. 
Chapter 6| Abstract This chapter covers three principle morphometric methods, that will be called voxelbased, deformation-based and tensor-based morphometry.  Deformation-based morphometry (DBM) is a method for identifying macroscopic anatomical differences among the brains of different populations of subjects.  The method involves spatially normalizing the structural MR images of a number of subjects so that they all conform to the same stereotaxic space.  Multivariate statistics are then applied to the parameters describing the estimated nonlinear deformations that ensue.  Tensor-based morphometry (TBM) is introduced as a method of identifying regional structural differences from the gradients of deformations fields.  Deformation 1 fields encode the relative positions of different brain structures, but local shapes (such as volumes, lengths and areas) are encoded in their gradients (Jacobian matrix field).  Various functions of these tensor-fields can be used to characterize shape differences.  At its simplest, voxel-based morphometry (VBM) involves a voxel-wise comparison of the local concentration of grey matter between two groups of subjects.  The procedure is relatively straight-forward, and involves spatially normalizing highresolution MR images from all the subjects in the study into the same stereotaxic space.  This is followed by segmenting the grey matter from the spatially normalized images, and smoothing these grey-matter segments.  Voxel-wise parametric statistical tests are performed which compare the smoothed grey-matter images from the groups.  Corrections for multiple comparisons are made using the theory of Gaussian random fields. 
Nonlinear Regression in Parametric Activation Studies| Parametric study designs can reveal information about the relationship between a study parameter (e. g. , word presentation rate) and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in functional imaging.  The brain's responses in relation to study parameters might be nonlinear, therefore the (linear) correlation coefficient as often used in the analysis of parametric studies might not be a proper characterization.  We present a noninteractive method, which fits nonlinear functions of stimulus or task parameters to rCBF responses, using second-order polynomial expansions.  This technique is implemented in the context of the general linear model and statistical parametric mapping.  We also consider the usefulness of statistical inferences, based on F fields, about similarities and differences of these nonlinear responses in different groups.  This approach is illustrated with a 12-run H 2 15 O PET activation study using an auditory paradigm of increasing word presentation rates.  A patient who had recovered from severe aphasia and a normal control were studied.  We demonstrate the ability of this new technique to identify brain regions where rCBF is closely related to increasing word presentation rate in both subjects without constraining the nature of this relationship and where these nonlinear responses differ. 
MRI and PET Coregistration---A Cross Validation of Statistical Parametric Mapping and Automated Image Registration| Coregistration of functional PET and T1-weighted MR images is a necessary step for combining functional information from PET images with anatomical information in MR images.  Several coregistration algorithms have been published and are used in functional brain imaging studies.  In this paper, we present a comparison and cross validation of the two most widely used coregistration routines (Friston et al. 
Statistical parametric mapping for event-related potentials (II): a hierarchical temporal model| In this paper, we describe a temporal model for event-related potentials (ERP) in the context of statistical parametric mapping (SPM).  In brief, we project channel data onto a two-dimensional scalp surface or into three-dimensional brain space using some appropriate inverse solution.  We then treat the spatiotemporal data in a mass-univariate fashion.  This implicitly factorises the model into spatial and temporal components.  The key contribution of this paper is the use of observation models that afford an explicit distinction between observation error and variation in the expression of ERPs.  This distinction is created by employing a two-level hierarchical model, in which the first level models the ERP effects within-subject and trial type, while the second models differences in ERP expression among trial types and subjects.  By bringing the analysis of ERP data into a classical hierarchical (i. e. , mixed effects) framework, many apparently disparate approaches (e. g. , conventional P300 analyses and timefrequency analyses of stimulus-locked oscillations) can be reconciled within the same estimation and inference procedure.  Inference proceeds in the normal way using t or F statistics to test for effects that are localised in peristimulus time or in some time -- frequency window.  The use of F statistics is an important generalisation of classical approaches, because it allows one to test for effects that lie in a multidimensional subspace (i. e. , of unknown but constrained form).  We describe the analysis procedures, the underlying theory and compare its performance to established techniques.  D 2004 Elsevier Inc.  All rights reserved. 
A test for a conjunction| Abstract A conjunction is defined in the brain mapping literature as the occurrence of the same event at the same location in two or more independent 3D brain images.  The images are smooth isotropic 3D random fields of test statistics, and the event occurs when the image exceeds a fixed high threshold.  We give a simple approximation to the probability of a conjunction occurring anywhere in a fixed region, so that we can test for a local increase in mean of the images at the same unknown location in all images, a generalization of the split-t test.  This is the corollary to a more general result on the expected Minkowski functionals of the set of points where a conjunction occurs. 
Identifying Global Anatomical Differences: Deformation-Based Morphometry| Abstract: The aim of this paper is to illustrate a method for identifying macroscopic anatomical differences among the brains of different populations of subjects.  The method involves spatially normalizing the structural MR images of a number of subjects so that they all conform to the same stereotactic space.  Multivariate statistics are then applied to the parameters describing the estimated nonlinear deformations that ensue.  To illustrate the method, we compared the gross morphometry of male and female subjects.  We also assessed brain asymmetry, the effect of handedness, and interactions among these effects.  Hum. 
Characterizing Stimulus--Response Functions Using Nonlinear Regressors in Parametric fMRI Experiments| Parametric study designs proved very useful in characterizing the relationship between experimental parameters (e. g. , word presentation rate) and regional cerebral blood flow in positron emission tomography studies.  In a previous paper we presented a method that fits nonlinear functions of stimulus or task parameters to hemodynamic responses, using second-order polynomial expansions.  Here we expand this approach to model nonlinear relationships between BOLD responses and experimental parameters, using fMRI.  We present a framework that allows this technique to be implemented in the context of the general linear model employed by statistical parametric mapping (SPM).  Statistical inferences, in this instance, are based on F statistics and in this respect we emphasize the use of corrected P values for F fields (i. e. , SPM5F 6).  The approach is illustrated with a fMRI study that looked at the effect of increasing auditory word-presentation rate.  Our parametric design allowed us to characterize different forms of rate-dependent responses in three critical regions: (i) bilateral frontal regions showed a categorical response to the presence of words irrespective of rate, suggesting a role for this region in establishing cognitive (e. g. , attentional) set; (ii) in bilateral occipitotemporal regions activations increased linearly with increasing word rate; and (iii) posterior auditory association cortex exhibited a nonlinear (inverted U) relationship to word rate.  r 1998 Academic Press
Variational Bayesian Inference for fMRI Time-Series| Abstract We describe a Bayesian estimation and inference procedure for fMRI time series based on the use of General Linear Models with Autoregressive (AR) error processes.  We make use of the Variational Bayesian (VB) framework which approximates the true posterior density with a factorised density.  The fidelity of this approximation is verified via Gibbs sampling.  The VB approach provides a natural extension to previous Bayesian analyses which have used Empirical Bayes.  VB has the advantage of taking into account the variability of hyperparameter estimates with little additional computational effort.  Further, VB allows for automatic selection of the order of the AR process.  Results are shown on simulated data and on data from an event-related fMRI experiment. 
A neural mass model for MEG/EEG: coupling and neuronal dynamics| Abstract Although MEG/EEG signals are highly variable, systematic changes in distinct frequency bands are commonly encountered.  These frequency-specific changes represent robust neural correlates of cognitive or perceptual processes (for example, alpha rhythms emerge on closing the eyes).  However, their functional significance remains a matter of debate.  Some of the mechanisms that generate these signals are known at the cellular level and rest on a balance of excitatory and inhibitory interactions within and between populations of neurons.  The kinetics of the ensuing population dynamics determine the frequency of oscillations.  In this work we extended the classical nonlinear lumped-parameter model of alpha rhythms, initially developed by Lopes da Silva and colleagues [Kybernetik 15 (1974) 27], to generate more complex dynamics.  We show that the whole spectrum of MEG/EEG signals can be reproduced within the oscillatory regime of this model by simply changing the population kinetics.  We used the model to examine the influence of coupling strength and propagation delay on the rhythms generated by coupled cortical areas.  The main findings were that (1) coupling induces phase-locked activity, with a phase shift of 0 or # when the coupling is bidirectional, and (2) both coupling and propagation delay are critical determinants of the MEG/EEG spectrum.  In forthcoming articles, we will use this model to (1) estimate how neuronal interactions are expressed in MEG/EEG oscillations and establish the construct validity of various indices of nonlinear coupling, and (2) generate event-related transients to derive physiologically informed basis functions for statistical modelling of average evoked responses.  2003 Elsevier Inc.  All rights reserved. 
A Dynamic Causal Modeling Study on Category Effects: Bottom--Up or Top--Down Mediation?| Abstract & In this study, we combined functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and dynamic causal modeling (DCM) to investigate whether object category effects in the occipital and temporal cortex are mediated by inputs from early visual cortex or parietal regions.  Resolving this issue may provide anatomical constraints on theories of category specificity--which make different assumptions about the underlying neurophysiology.  The data were acquired by Ishai, Ungerleider, Martin, Schouten,
Characterizing the Response of PET and fMRI Data using Multivariate Linear Models (MLM)| This paper presents a new method for characterizing brain responses in both PET and fMRI data.  The aim is to capture the correlations between the scans of an experiment and a set of external predictor variables that are thought to affect the scans, such as type, intensity, or shape of stimulus response.  Its main feature is a Canonical Variates Analysis (CVA) of the estimated effects of the predictors from a multivariate linear model (MLM).  The advantage of this over current methods is that temporal correlations can be incorporated into the model, making the MLM method suitable for fMRI as well as PET data.  Moreover, tests for the presence of any correlation, and inference about the number of canonical variates needed to capture that correlation, can be based on standard multivariate statistics, rather than simulations.  When applied to an fMRI data set previously analyzed by another CVA method, the MLM method reveals a pattern of responses that is closer to that detected in an earlier non-CVA analysis. 
Detecting Activations in PET and fMRI: Levels of Inference and Power| This paper is about detecting activations in statistical parametric maps and considers the relative sensitivity of a nested hierarchy of tests that we have framed in terms of the level of inference (voxel level, cluster level, and set level).  These tests are based on the probability of obtaining c, or more, clusters with k, or more, voxels, above a threshold u.  This probability has a reasonably simple form and is derived using distributional approximations from the theory of Gaussian fields.  The most important contribution of this work is the notion of set-level inference.  Set-level inference refers to the statistical inference that the number of clusters comprising an observed activation profile is highly unlikely to have occurred by chance.  This inference pertains to the set of activations reaching criteria and represents a new way of assigning P values to distributed effects.  Cluster-level inferences are a special case of set-level inferences, which obtain when the number of clusters c 5 1.  Similarly voxellevel inferences are special cases of cluster-level inferences that result when the cluster can be very small (i. e. , k 5 0).  Using a theoretical power analysis of distributed activations, we observed that set-level inferences are generally more powerful than cluster-level inferences and that cluster-level inferences are generally more powerful than voxel-level inferences.  The price paid for this increased sensitivity is reduced localizing power: Voxel-level tests permit individual voxels to be identified as significant, whereas clusterand set-level inferences only allow clusters or sets of clusters to be so identified.  For all levels of inference the spatial size of the underlying signal f (relative to resolution) determines the most powerful thresholds to adopt.  For set-level inferences if f is large (e. g. , fMRI) then the optimum extent threshold should be greater than the expected number of voxels for each cluster.  If f is small (e. g. , PET) the extent threshold should be small.  We envisage that set-level inferences will find a role in making statistical inferences about distributed activations, particularly in fMRI.  r 1996 Academic Press, Inc. 
2000 Special Issue Neural modeling and functional brain imaging: an overview| Abstract This article gives an overview of the different functional brain imaging methods, the kinds of questions these methods try to address and some of the questions associated with functional neuroimaging data for which neural modeling must be employed to provide reasonable answers. 
Anatomically Informed Basis Functions| This paper introduces the general framework, concepts, and procedures of anatomically informed basis functions (AIBF), a new method for the analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data.  In contradistinction to existing voxel-based univariate or multivariate methods the approach described here can incorporate various forms of prior anatomical knowledge to specify sophisticated spatiotemporal models for fMRI time-series.  In particular, we focus on anatomical prior knowledge, based on reconstructed gray matter surfaces and assumptions about the location and spatial smoothness of the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) effect.  After reconstruction of the grey matter surface from an individual's high-resolution T1-weighted MRI, we specify a set of anatomically informed basis functions, fit the model parameters for a single time point, using a regularized solution, and finally make inferences about the estimated parameters over time.  Significant effects, induced by the experimental paradigm, can then be visualized in the native voxel-space or on the reconstructed folded, inflated, or flattened cortical surface.  As an example, we apply the approach to a fMRI study (finger opposition task) and compare the results to those of a voxel-based analysis as implemented in the Statistical Parametric Mapping package (SPM99).  Additionally, we show, using simulated data, that the approach offers several desirable features particularly in terms of superresolution and localization.  2000 Academic Press
Chapter 4 High-Dimensional Image Warping| Abstract This chapter is about warping brain images of different subjects to the same stereotaxic space.  However, unlike Chapter 3, this method uses thousands or millions of parameters, so is potentially able to obtain much more precision.  A high dimensional 1 model is used, whereby a finite element approach is employed to estimate translations at the location of each voxel in the template image.  Bayesian statistics are used to obtain a maximum a posteriori (MAP) estimate of the deformation field.  The validity of any registration method is largely based upon the prior knowledge about the variability of the estimated parameters.  In this approach it is assumed that the priors should have some form of symmetry, in that priors describing the probability distribution of the deformations should be identical to those for the inverses (i. e. , warping brain A to brain B should not be different probabilistically from warping B to A).  The fundamental assumption is that the probability of stretching a voxel by a factor of n is considered to be the same as the probability of shrinking n voxels by a factor of n- 1 .  The penalty function of choice is based upon the logs of the singular values of the Jacobian matrices having normal distributions, which enforces a continuous one-to-one mapping.  A gradient descent algorithm is presented that incorporates the above priors in order to obtain a MAP estimate of the deformations.  Further consistency is achieved by registering images to their "averages", where this average is one of both intensity and shape. 
Another Neural Code?| This paper presents the conjecture that functional integration may be mediated by the mutual induction and maintenance of stereotyped spatiotemporal patterns of activity (i. e. , transients) in different neuronal populations.  In contradistinction to temporal and rate coding models of neuronal interactions, transient coding considers that transactions among neuronal systems use transient dynamics that are distributed in a structured way over both space and time.  In contrast to synchronization models, transient coding does not depend on interactions at the same frequencies, in different parts of the brain, but involves covariations among different frequencies and can therefore be considered a more general form of coding.  Using an analysis of the correlations among the spectral density of neuromagnetic signals, measured at different cortical regions, this hypothesis was confirmed.  For example high (gamma)-frequency oscillations in the prefrontal cortex are associated with low (20 Hz)-frequency oscillations in the parietal cortex.  The results are consistent with transient coding and suggest that transient dynamics endure for at least 40--200 ms.  Transient coding means that correlations (rate coding) and coherence (synchrony) are neither complete nor sufficient characterizations of neuronal interactions.  Although temporal coding, rate coding, and synchrony are important aspects of neuronal interactions, the results speak to further integrative neuronal mechanisms of a more general nature.  r 1997 Academic Press
Modelling Functional Integration: A Comparison of Structural Equation and Dynamic Causal Models| Abstract The brain appears to adhere to two fundamental principles of functional organisation, functional integration and functional specialisation, where the integration within and among specialised areas is mediated by effective connectivity.  In this paper we review two different approaches to modelling effective connectivity from fMRI data, Structural Equation Models (SEMs) and Dynamic Causal Models (DCMs).  In common to both approaches are model comparison frameworks in which inferences can be made about effective connectivity per se and about how that connectivity can be changed by perceptual or cognitive set.  Underlying the two approaches, however, are two very different generative models.  In DCM a distinction is made between the `neuronal level' and the `hemodynamic level'.  Experimental inputs cause changes in effective connectivity expressed at the level of neurodynamics which in turn cause changes in the observed hemodynamics.  In SEM changes in effective connectivity lead directly to changes in the covariance structure of the observed hemodynamics.  Because changes in effective connectivity in the brain occur at a neuronal level DCM is the preferred model for fMRI data.  This review focuses on the underlying assumptions and limitations of each model and demonstrates their application to data from a study of attention to visual motion. 
Mixtures of General Linear Models for Functional Neuroimaging| Abstract|We set out a new general framework for making inferences from neuroimaging data, which includes a standard approach to neuroimaging analysis, Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM), as a special case.  The model offers numerous conceptual and statistical advantages that derive from analysing data at the `cluster-level' rather than the `voxel-level' and from explicit modelling of the shape and position of clusters of activation.  This provides a natural and principled way to pool data from nearby voxels for parameter and variance-component estimation.  The model can also be viewed as performing a spatio-temporal cluster analysis.  The parameters of the model are estimated using an Expectation Maximisation (EM) algorithm. 
Bayesian fMRI time series analysis with spatial priors| We describe a Bayesian estimation and inference procedure for fMRI time series based on the use of General Linear Models (GLMs).  Importantly, we use a spatial prior on regression coefficients which embodies our prior knowledge that evoked responses are spatially contiguous and locally homogeneous.  Further, using a computationally efficient Variational Bayes framework, we are able to let the data determine the optimal amount of smoothing.  We assume an arbitrary order Auto-Regressive (AR) model for the errors.  Our model generalizes earlier work on voxel-wise estimation of GLM-AR models and inference in GLMs using Posterior Probability Maps (PPMs).  Results are shown on simulated data and on data from an event-related fMRI experiment.  D 2004 Elsevier Inc.  All rights reserved. 
Technical Note Estimating efficiency a priori: a comparison of blocked and randomized designs| Abstract This technical note deals with a priori estimation of efficiency of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) designs.  The efficiency of an estimator is a measure of how reliable it is and depends on error variance (the variance not modeled by explanatory variables in the design matrix) and the design variance (a function of the explanatory variables and the contrast tested).  Changes in the experimental design can induce changes in the variance of estimated responses.  This translates into changes in the standard error of the response estimate or equivalently into changes in efficiency.  One consequence is that statistics, testing for the same activation in different contexts (i. e. , experimental designs), can change substantially even if the activation and error variance are exactly the same.  We demonstrate this effect using an event-related fMRI study of single word reading during blocked and randomized trial presentations.  Furthermore, we show that the error variance can change with the experimental design.  This highlights a problem with a priori comparison of efficiency for two or more experimental designs, which usually assumes identical error variance.  2003 Elsevier Science (USA).  All rights reserved. 
Parametric Analysis of Oscillatory Activity as Measured With EEG/MEG| Abstract: We assess the suitability of conventional parametric statistics for analyzing oscillatory activity, as measured with electroencephalography/magnetoencephalography (EEG/MEG).  The approach we consider is based on narrow-band power time--frequency decompositions of single-trial data.  The ensuing power measures have a # 2 -distribution.  The use of the general linear model (GLM) under normal error assumptions is, therefore, difficult to motivate for these data.  This is unfortunate because the GLM plays a central role in classical inference and is the standard estimation and inference framework for neuroimaging data.  The key contribution of this work is to show that, in many circumstances, one can appeal to the central limit theorem and assume normality for generative models of power.  If this is not appropriate, one can transform the data to render the error terms approximately normal.  These considerations allow one to analyze induced and evoked oscillations using standard frameworks like statistical parametric mapping.  We establish the validity of parametric tests using synthetic and real data and compare its performance to established nonparametric procedures. 
Bilinear Dynamical Systems| Abstract In this paper we propose the use of Bilinear Dynamical Systems (BDS) for model-based deconvolution of fMRI time series.  The importance of this work lies in being able to deconvolve hemodynamic timeseries, in an informed way, to disclose the underlying neuronal activity.  Being able to estimate neuronal responses in a particular brain region is fundamental for many models of functional integration and connectivity in the brain.  BDSs comprise a stochastic bilinear neurodynamical model specified in discrete-time and a set of linear convolution kernels for the hemodynamics.  We derive an Expectation-Maximisation (EM) algorithm for parameter estimation, in which fMRI time series are deconvolved in an E-step and model parameters are updated in an M-Step.  We report preliminary results that focus on the assumed stochastic nature of the neurodynamic model and compare the method to Wiener deconvolution. 
Classical and Bayesian Inference in Neuroimaging: Applications| In Friston et al. 
Multivariate autoregressive modeling of fMRI time series| Abstract We propose the use of multivariate autoregressive (MAR) models of functional magnetic resonance imaging time series to make inferences about functional integration within the human brain.  The method is demonstrated with synthetic and real data showing how such models are able to characterize interregional dependence.  We extend linear MAR models to accommodate nonlinear interactions to model top-down modulatory processes with bilinear terms.  MAR models are time series models and thereby model temporal order within measured brain activity.  A further benefit of the MAR approach is that connectivity maps may contain loops, yet exact inference can proceed within a linear framework.  Model order selection and parameter estimation are implemented by using Bayesian methods.  2003 Elsevier Science (USA).  All rights reserved. 
Image Segmentation| Abstract This chapter describes a method of segmenting MR images into different tissue classes, using a modified Gaussian Mixture Model.  By knowing the prior spatial probability of each voxel being grey matter, white matter or cerebro-spinal fluid, it is possible to obtain a more robust classification.  In addition, a step for correcting intensity non-uniformity is also included, which makes the method more applicable to images corrupted by smooth intensity variations. 
Technical Note: Modeling regional and psychophysiologic interactions in fMRI: The importance of hemodynamic deconvolution| ABSTRACT The analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) time-series data can provide information not only about task-related activity, but also about the connectivity (functional or effective) among regions, and the influences of behavioral or physiologic states on that connectivity (Bchel and Friston, 1997).  Similar analyses have been performed in other imaging modalities, such as positron emission tomography (PET) (McIntosh et al. , 1994).  However, fMRI is unique because the information about the underlying neuronal activity is filtered or convolved with a hemodynamic response function.  Previous studies of regional connectivity in fMRI have overlooked this convolution and have assumed that the observed hemodynamic response approximates the neuronal response.  In this paper, this assumption is revisited using estimates of underlying neuronal activity.  These estimates use a Parametric Empirical Bayes formulation for hemodynamic deconvolution. 
Chapter 2 Rigid Body Registration| Abstract Rigid body registration is one of the simplest forms of image registration, so this chapter provides an ideal framework for introducing some of the concepts that will be used by the more complex registration methods described later.  The shape of a human brain changes very little with head movement, so rigid body transformations can be used to model different head positions of the same subject.  Registration methods described in this chapter include within modality, or between different modalities such as PET and MRI.  Matching of two images is performed by finding the rotations and translations that optimize some mutual function of the images.  Within modality registration generally involves matching the images by minimizing the sum of squared difference between them.  For between modality registration, the matching criterion needs to be more complex. 
To smooth or not to smooth? Bias and eciency in fMRI time series analysis|
Analysis of MRI time-series revisited|
Spatial Normalization,|
Statistical parametric maps in functional imaging: a general linear approach|
The functional anatomy of attention to visual motion| A functional MRI study. 
Voxel-based morphometry---the methods|
Functional and effective connectivity in neuroimaging: a synthesis|
Functional topography: Multidimensional scaling and functional connectivity in the brain|
Characterizing the complexity of neural interactions|
Functional connectivity: The principal-component analysis of large (PET) data sets|
How the brain learns to see objects and faces in an impoverished context|
Generalisability, random effects & population inference|
Investigations of the functional anatomy of attention using the Stroop test|
Nonlinear event-related responses in fMRI|
Event-related fMRI: characterizing differential responses|
Movement-Related Effects in fMRI Time-Series,|
Bayesian Estimation of Dynamical Systems: An Application to fMRI|
Generalizability, random effects and population inference|
A heuristic for the degrees of freedom of statistics based on multiple variance parameters|
Statistical Parametric Mapping|
Brain systems mediating aversive conditioning: an event-related fMRI study|
Characterizing dynamic brain responses with fMRI: a multivariate approach|
Nonlinear spatial normalization using basis functions|
Dynamic representations and generative models of brain function|
Nonlinear coupling between evoked rCBF and BOLD signals: A simulation study of hemodynamic responses|
Dynamic Causal Modelling|
The physiological basis of attentional modulation in extrastriate visual areas|
Multisubject fMRI studies and conjunction analyses|
The slicetiming problem in event-related fMRI|
Comments and controversies: How many subjects constitute a study?|
To smooth or not to smooth?|
Characterisation and Correction of Movement-Related Interpolation Effects in MRI,|
Multimodal image coregistration and partitioning---A unified framework|
Brain function, nonlinear coupling, and neuronal transients|
The labile brain| I.  Neuronal transients and nonlinear coupling. 
Characterizing functional integration, in:|
Attentional modulation of effective connectivity from V2 to V5/MT in humans|
Psychophysiological and modulatory interactions in|
Modulation of connectivity in visual pathways by attention: Cortical interactions evaluated with structural equation modeling and fMRI|
Dynamic Changes in Eective Connectivity Characterized by Variable Parameter Regression and Kalman Filtering|
Tests for distributed, non-focal brain activations|
Combining spatial extent and peak intensity to test for activations in functional imaging|
Comparing functional (PET) images: The assessment of significant change|
editors|
Modeling regional and psychophsyiologic interactions in fMRI: the importance of hemodynamic deconvolution|
Comparing dynamics causal models|
Spatial Registration and Normalisation of Images|
Characterizing stimulus--response function using nonlinear regressors in parametric fMRI experiments|
How many subjects constitute a study?|
Value-dependent selection in the brain: simulation in a synthetic neural model|
Characterizing evoked hemodynamics with fMRI|
Nonlinear responses in fMRI: the balloon model, Volterra kernels, and other hemodynamics,|
The neural structures expressing perceptual hysteresis in visual letter recognition|
Characterization and correction of interpolation effects in the realignment of fMRI time series|
Bilateral abnormalities of the caudate in a family with an inherited speech and language disorder|
The relationship between global and local changes in pet scans|
Cerebral asymmetry and the effects of sex and handedness on brain structure: a voxel-based morphometric analysis of 465 normal adult human brains|
Time-dependent changes in effective connectivity measured with PET|
Jezzard P and Turner R 1994 Analysis of functional MRI time series|
"Chapter 2: Spatial Normalization,|
Fully three-dimensional nonlinear spatial normalization: A new approach,"|
Regional brain activity in chronic schizophrenic patients during the performance of a verbal fluency task|
Cerebral blood flow and mental processes in schizophrenia|
Stochastic designs in event-related fMRI|
Plastic transform of PET images|
Localization in PET images: Direct fitting of the intercommisural (AC-PC) line|
Regional response differences within the human auditory cortex when listening to words|
Nonlinear regression in parametric activation studies|
The neural regions sustaining object recognition and naming|
The representation of objects in the human occipital and temporal cortex|
The effects of presentation rate during word and pseudoword reading: A comparison of PET and fMRI|
Analysis of dynamic radioligand displacement or "activation" studies|
Dissociable neural responses in human reward systems|
Statistical parametric mapping: Ontology and current issues|
Neural basis of an inherited speech and language disorder|
Temporal difference models and reward-related learning in human brain,|
Imaging cognitive anatomy|
Plastic transformation of PET images|
The temporal dynamics of reading: a PET study|
Functional anatomy of human procedural learning determined with regional cerebral blood flow and PET|
Characterizing the relationship between bold contrast and regional cerebral blood flow measurements by varying the stimulus presentation rate|
Application of the Gibbs sampler to fMRI data|
The neuroanatomy of autism: a voxel-based whole brain analysis of structural scans|
Informed spatial basis functions in minimum norm solutions for the electromagnetic source localisation problem|
Analysing brain images: principles and overview|
Characterising functional integration|
Characterising distributed functional systems|
Neuronal transients|
The Relationship Between Synchronization Among Neuronal Populations and Their Mean Activity Levels|
Lateralized cognitive processes and lateralized task control in the human brain|
Transients, metastability and neuronal dynamics,|
Spatial realignment and normalization of images|
Statistical modelling of low-frequency confounds in fMRI| Proc 3rd Int. 
Biophysical models of fMRI responses|
The trouble with cognitive subtraction|
A neuromodulatory role for the human amygdala in processing emotional facial expressions|
A direct demonstration of functional specialization in human visual cortex|
Functional neuroanatomy of the human brain --- Positron EmissionTomography---A new neuroanatomical technique|
Statistical parametric mapping for eventrelated potentials:|
Degeneracy and cognitive anatomy|
A functional neuroimaging description of two deep dyslexic patients|
Role of the Human Rostral Supplementary Motor Area and the Basal Ganglia in Motor Sequence Control - Investigations with H-2 O-15 PET|
Temporal difference models describe higher-order learning in humans|
Distributional assumptions in voxel-based morphometry|
A voxel-based morphometric study of aging in 465 normal adult human brains|
Zero-lag synchronous dynamics in triplets of interconnected cortical areas|
Characterizing brain images with the general linear model|
Signal-, set- and movement-related activity in the human brain: An event-related fMRI study [published erratum appears|
The effect of the dopamine agonist, apomorphine, on regional cerebral blood flow in normal volunteers|
Posterior probability maps and SPMs|
The effect of the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine on regional cerebral blood flow during the performance of a memory task|
Amygdalahippocampal involvement in human aversive trace conditioning revealed through event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging|
Cholinergic modulation of experience-dependent plasticity in human auditory cortex|
Pharmacological modulation of behavioral and neuronal correlates of repetition priming|
SPM course notes|
Assessing study-specific regional variation in fMRI signal|
Modes or models: A critique on independent component analysis for fMRI,|
Statistical Parametric Mapping and Other Analyses of Functional Imaging Data,|
Statistical modelling of low-frequency confounds in fMRI|
How the brain learns to see in an impoverished context|
Assessing modulatory interactions among visual areas using nonlinear structural equation modelling and fMRI|
The role of the thalamus in `top down' modulation of attention to sound|
Characterizing modulatory interactions between areas V1 and V1 in human cortex: A new treatment of functional MRI data|
The critical relationship between the timing of stimulus presentation and data acquisition in blocked designs with fMRI|
