ITERATIVE DENOISING FOR CROSS-CORPUS DISCOVERY| Abstract: We consider the problem of statistical pattern recognition in a heterogeneous, high-dimensional setting.  In particular, we consider the search for meaningful cross-category associations in a heterogeneous text document corpus.  Our approach involves \iterative denoising" | that is, iteratively extracting (corpus-dependent) features and partitioning the document collection into sub-corpora.  We present an anecdote wherein this methodology discovers a meaningful cross-category association in a heterogeneous collection of scientific documents. 
Good Applications for Crummy Machine Translation| Abstract Ideally, we might hope to improve the performance of our MT systems by improving the system, but it might be even more important to improve performance by looking for a more appropriate application.  A survey of the literature on evaluation of MT systems seems to suggest that the success of the evaluation often depends very strongly on the selection of an appropriate application.  If the application is well-chosen, then it often becomes fairly clear how the system should be evaluated.  Moreover, the evaluation is likely to make the system look good.  Conversely, if the application is not clearly identified (or worse, if the application is poorly chosen), then it is often very difficult to find a satisfying evaluation paradigm.  We begin our discussion with a brief review of some evaluation metrics that have been tried in the past and conclude that it is difficult to identify a satisfying evaluation paradigm that will make sense over all possible applications.  It is probably wise to identify the application first, and then we will be in a much better position to address evaluation questions.  The discussion will then turn to the main point, an essay on how to pick a good niche application for state-of-the-art (crummy) machine translation. 
A Program for Aligning Sentences in Bilingual Corpora| ABSTRACT Researchers in both machine translation (e. g. , Brown et al. , 1990) and bilingual lexicography (e. g. , Klavans and Tzoukermann, 1990) have recently become interested in studying bilingual corpora, bodies of text such as the Canadian Hansards (parliamentary proceedings) which are available in multiple languages (such as French and English).  One useful step is to align the sentences, that is, to identify correspondences between sentences in one language and sentences in the other language.  This paper will describe a method and a program (align) for aligning sentences based on a simple statistical model of character lengths.  The program uses the fact that longer sentences in one language tend to be translated into longer sentences in the other language, and that shorter sentences tend to be translated into shorter sentences.  A probabilistic score is assigned to each proposed correspondence of sentences, based on the scaled difference of lengths of the two sentences (in characters) and the variance of this difference.  This probabilistic score is used in a dynamic programming framework to find the maximum likelihood alignment of sentences.  It is remarkable that such a simple approach works as well as it does.  An evaluation was performed based on a trilingual corpus of economic reports issued by the Union Bank of Switzerland (UBS) in English, French and German.  The method correctly aligned all but 4% of the sentences.  Moreover, it is possible to extract a large subcorpus which has a much smaller error rate.  By selecting the best scoring 80% of the alignments, the error rate is reduced from 4% to 0. 7%.  There were more errors on the English-French subcorpus than on the English-German subcorpus, showing that error rates will depend on the corpus considered, however, both were small enough to hope that the method will be useful for many language pairs.  To further research on bilingual corpora, a much larger sample of Canadian Hansards (approximately 90 million words, half in English and and half in French) has been aligned with the align program and will be available through the Data Collection Initiative of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL/DCI).  In addition, in order to facilitate replication of the align program, an appendix is provided with detailed c-code of the more difficult core of the align program. 
Towards More Intelligent Mobile Search| Abstract As the mobile Internet continues to grow there is an increasing need to provide users with effective search facilities.  In this paper we argue that the standard Web search approach of providing snippet text alongside each result is not appropriate given the interface limitations of mobile devices.  Instead we evaluate an alternative approach involving the use of related queries in place of snippet text for result gisting. 
Word Association Norms, Mutual Information and Lexicography| Abstract The term word association is used in a very particular sense in the psycholinguistic literature.  (Generally speaking, subjects respond quicker than normal to the word nurse if it follows a highly associated word such as doctor. ) We will extend the term to provide the basis for a statistical description of a variety of interesting linguistic phenomena, ranging from semantic relations of the doctor/nurse type (content word/content word) to lexico-syntactic co-occurrence constraints between verbs and prepositions (content word/function word).  This paper will propose an objective measure based on the information theoretic notion of mutual information, for estimating word association norms from computer readable corpora.  (The standard method of obtaining word association norms, testing a few thousand subjects on a few hundred words, is both costly and unreliable. ) The proposed measure, the association ratio, estimates word association norms directly from computer readable corpora, making it possible to estimate norms for tens of thousands of words.  1.  Meaning and Association It is common practice in linguistics to classify words not only on the basis of their meanings but also on the basis of their co-occurrence with other words.  Running through the whole Firthian tradition, for example, is the theme that "You shall know a word by the company it keeps" (Firth, 1957).  ``On the one hand, bank co-occurs with words and expression such as
K-vec: A New Approach for Aligning Parallel Texts| Abstract Various methods have been proposed for aligning texts in two or more languages such as the Canadian Parliamentary Debates (Hansards).  Some of these methods generate a bilingual lexicon as a by-product.  We present an alternative alignment strategy which we call K-vec, that starts by estimating the lexicon.  For example, it discovers that the English word fisheries is similar to the French pches by noting that the distribution of fisheries in the English text is similar to the distribution of pches in the French.  K-vec does not depend on sentence boundaries.  1.  Motivation There have been quite a number of recent papers on parallel text: Brown et al (1990, 1991, 1993), Chen (1993), Church (1993), Church et al (1993), Dagan et al (1993), Gale and Church (1991, 1993), Isabelle (1992), Kay and Ro . .  senschein (1993), Klavans and Tzoukermann (1990), Kupiec (1993), Matsumoto (1991), Ogden and Gonzales (1993), Shemtov (1993), Simard et al (1992), WarwickArmstrong and Russell (1990), Wu (to appear).  Most of this work has been focused on European language pairs, especially English-French.  It remains an open question how well these methods might generalize to other language pairs, especially pairs such as English-Japanese and EnglishChinese.  In previous work (Church et al, 1993), we have reported some preliminary success in aligning the English and Japanese versions of the AWK manual (Aho, Kernighan, Weinberger (1980)), using char_align (Church, 1993), a method that looks for character sequences that are the same in both the source and target.  The char_align method was designed for European language pairs, where cognates often share character sequences, e. g. , government and gouvernement.  In general, this approach doesn't work between languages such as English and Japanese which are written in different alphabets.  The AWK manual happens to contain a large number of examples and technical words that are the same in the English source and target Japanese.  It remains an open question how we might be able to align a broader class of texts, especially those that are written in different character sets and share relatively few character sequences.  The K-vec method attempts to address this question. 
A comparison of the enhanced good-turing and deleted estimation methods for estimating probabilities of english bigrams|
On Memory Limitations in Natural Language Processing,|
Identifying word correspondences in parallel texts|
Robust Bilingual Word Alignment for Machine Aided Translation|
-vec: A new approach for aligning parallel texts|
Estimation Procedures for language context: Poor estimates are worse than none|
Preliminary analysis of a breadth-first parsing algorithm: Theoretical and experimental results,|
Lexical substitutability|
`Japanese word segmentation using similarity measure for IR'|
Word association norms, mutual information and lexicography|
Identifying word correspondance in parallel text|
Sprachverarbeitung: Funktionen und Dysfunktionen|
Good applications for crummy MT|
Phonological parsing in speech recognition|
Termight: Identifying and translating technical terminology|
K-vec: A new approach for aligning parallel texts|
ApJ, submitted (astro|
Robust bilingual word alignment for machine aided translation|
ACL-95 Tutorial on NGRAMS|
Using OCR and equalization to downsample documents|
Just-In-Time Lexicons|
Commercial applications and review for direct write technologies"|
Appendix A: The Good-Turing theorem|
Identifying word correspondence in parallel text|
Beyond `bad manners': the power relations of `consumer participation in Ontario's mental health system|
& DAVID YAROWSKY|
A program for aligning sentences in bilingual corpora|
A program for aligning sentences in bilingual corpora|
What's Wrong with Adding One?" submitted to|
