A COUPLED HMM FOR AUDIO-VISUAL SPEECH RECOGNITION| ABSTRACT In recent years several speech recognition systems that use visual together with audio information showed significant increase in performance over the standard speech recognition systems.  The use of visual features is justified by both the bimodality of the speech generation and by the need of features that are invariant to acoustic noise perturbation.  The audio-visual speech recognition system presented in this paper introduces a novel audio-visual fusion technique that uses a coupled hidden Markov model (HMM).  The statistical properties of the coupled-HMM allow us to model the state asynchrony of the audio and visual observations sequences while still preserving their natural correlation over time.  The experimental results show that the coupled HMM outperforms the multistream HMM in audio visual speech recognition. 
Linear-time inference in Hierarchical HMMs| Abstract The hierarchical hidden Markov model (HHMM) is a generalization of the hidden Markov model (HMM) that models sequences with structure at many length/time scales [FST98].  Unfortunately, the original inference algorithm is rather complicated, and takes ######### time, where # is the length of the sequence, making it impractical for many domains.  In this paper, we show how HHMMs are a special kind of dynamic Bayesian network (DBN), and thereby derive a much simpler inference algorithm, which only takes ####### time.  Furthermore, by drawing the connection between HHMMs and DBNs, we enable the application of many standard approximation techniques to further speed up inference. 
Hierarchical HMMs| Abstract The hierarchical hidden Markov model (HHMM) is a generalization of the hidden Markov model (HMM) that models sequences with structure at many length/time scales (Fine, Singer & Tishby, 1998).  Unfortunately, the original inference algorithm is rather complicated, and takes O(T 3 ) time, where T is the length of the sequence, making it impractical for many domains.  In this paper, we show how HHMMs are a special kind of dynamic Bayesian network (DBN), and thereby derive a much simpler inference algorithm, which only takes O(T ) time.  We explain how to do parameter and structure learning, and discuss related models and applications. 
Contextual models for object detection using boosted random fields| Abstract We seek to both detect and segment objects in images.  To exploit both local image data as well as contextual information, we introduce Boosted Random Fields (BRFs), which use boosting to learn the graph structure and local evidence of a conditional random field (CRF).  The graph structure is learned by assembling graph fragments in an additive model.  The connections between individual pixels are not very informative, but by using dense graphs, we can pool information from large regions of the image; dense models also support efficient inference.  We show how contextual information from other objects can improve detection performance, both in terms of accuracy and speed, by using a computational cascade.  We apply our system to detect stuff and things in office and street scenes. 
The Impact of Internet Subsidies in Public Schools| Abstract In an effort to alleviate the perceived growth of a digital divide, the U. S.  government enacted a major subsidy for Internet and communications investment in schools starting in 1998.  In this paper, we evaluate the effect of the subsidy---known as the E-Rate---on Internet investment in California public schools.  The program subsidized spending by 20-90 percent, depending on school characteristics.  Using new data on school technology usage in every school in California from 1996 to 2000 as well as application data from the E-Rate program, the results indicate that the subsidy did succeed in significantly increasing Internet investment.  The implied first-dollar price elasticity of demand for Internet investment is between --0. 9 and --2. 2 and the greatest sensitivity shows up among urban schools and schools with large black and Hispanic student populations.  Rural and predominantly white and Asian schools show much less sensitivity.  Overall, by the final year of the sample, there were about 66 percent more Internet classrooms than there would have been without the subsidy.  Schools' use of the Internet was trending upward even without the subsidy, though.  We estimate that the program accelerated the spread of the Internet by about 4 years.  Using a variety of test score results, however, it is clear that the success of the E-Rate program, at least so far, has been restricted to the increase in access.  The increase in Internet connections has had no measurable impact on any measure of student achievement. 
Unions and the Labor Market for Managers| Abstract We examine the relationship between the employment and compensation of managers and CEOs and the presence of a unionized workforce.  We develop a simple efficiency wage model, with a tradeoff between higher wages for workers and more monitoring, which requires more managers.  The model also assumes rent sharing between workers, managers and the owners of the firm.  Unions, by redistributing rents towards the workers, lead to lower employment and lower pay for managers.  Using a variety of data sets, we examine the implications of the model for the relationship between the employment and wages of managers and unionization.  We find several results generally consistent with our model.  (1) Both a higher fraction of unionization in an industry and region and a higher union wage differential are associated with fewer managers.  (2) Managers wages are about 5 to 7 percent lower in unionized firms.  (3) For CEOs the effects are larger: a 10 percent increase in unionization reduces the pay of CEOs by 2. 5 percent or more. 
Forthcoming in Quarterly Journal of Economics RELATIONAL CONTRACTS AND THE THEORY OF THE FIRM| Abstract Relational contracts---informal agreements sustained by the value of future relationships---are prevalent within and between firms.  We develop repeated-game models showing why and how relational contracts within firms (vertical integration) differ from those between (non-integration).  We show that integration affects the parties' temptations to renege on a given relational contract, and hence affects the best relational contract the parties can sustain.  In this sense, the integration decision can be an instrument in the service of the parties' relationship.  Our approach also has implications for joint ventures, alliances, and networks, and for the role of management within and between firms. 
Discretion in Executive Incentive Contracts| Abstract We examine the role of discretion in executive incentive contracts.  We consider the costs and benefits of using subjective performance evaluation of executives relative to objective performance measures.  We formulate hypotheses based on the theoretical work on discretionary compensation and test these hypotheses empirically using a proprietary dataset of executive bonus plans.  We show that discretion is less important in determining CEO pay than the pay of other executives.  We also find that discretion is relatively important in determining executive bonuses at larger and privately held firms and that more diversified firms are relatively less likely to compensate their business unit managers based on firm-wide performance.  Finally, we consider (and largely dismiss) tax-related explanations for our results.  * We are grateful to Towers Perrin for allowing access to their proprietary data on management bonus plans. 
Representing hierarchical POMDPs as DBNs for multi-scale robot localization| Abstract--- We explore the advantages of representing hierarchical partially observable Markov decision processes (HPOMDPs) as dynamic Bayesian networks (DBNs).  In particular, we focus on the special case of using H-POMDPs to represent multi-resolution spatial maps for indoor robot navigation.  Our results show that a DBN representation of H-POMDPs can train significantly faster than the original learning algorithm for HPOMDPs or the equivalent flat POMDP, and requires much less data.  In addition, the DBN formulation can easily be extended to parameter tying and factoring of variables, which further reduces the time and sample complexity.  This enables us to apply H-POMDP methods to much larger problems than previously possible. 
Vision-Based Speaker Detection Using Bayesian Networks| Abstract The development of user interfaces based on vision and speech requires the solution of a challenging statistical inference problem: The intentions and actions of multiple individuals must be inferred from noisy and ambiguous data.  We argue that Bayesian network models are an attractive statistical framework for cue fusion in these applications.  Bayes nets combine a natural mechanism for expressing contextual information with efficient algorithms for learning and inference.  We illustrate these points through the development of a Bayes net model for detecting when a user is speaking.  The model combines four simple vision sensors: face detection, skin color, skin texture, and mouth motion.  We present some promising experimental results. 
Context-based vision system for place and object recognition| 2003 massachusetts institute of technology, cambridge, ma 02139 usa --- www. ai. mit. edu massachusetts institute of technology --- artificial intelligence laboratory @ MIT Abstract While navigating in an environment, a vision system has to be able to recognize where it is and what the main objects in the scene are.  In this paper we present a context-based vision system for place and object recognition.  The goal is to identify familiar locations (e. g. , office 610, conference room 941, Main Street), to categorize new environments (office, corridor, street) and to use that information to provide contextual priors for object recognition (e. g. , table, chair, car, computer).  We present a low-dimensional global image representation that provides relevant information for place recognition and categorization, and how such contextual information introduces strong priors that simplify object recognition.  We have trained the system to recognize over 60 locations (indoors and outdoors) and to suggest the presence and locations of more than 20 different object types.  The algorithm has been integrated into a mobile system that provides real-time feedback to the user. 
Economic Perspectives on Software Design: PC Operating Systems and Platforms| Abstract Improvements in the software that provides hardware management, user interface and platform functions have played a central role in the growth and transformation of the personal computer (PC) industry.  Several forces shape the design of these "operating system" products and propel their evolution over time, including: .  The need to efficiently manage the interacting components of PC systems so as to keep pace with rapid advances in computer technologies, simplify computer use and facilitate the development of applications software.  .  The need to maintain compatibility with existing applications while preserving the flexibility to incorporate additional functions that support new applications.  .  The desire to economize on customer support costs and assign clear responsibility for making the interacting components of the PC work together.  .  The desire to bundle multiple software features into a single package so as to more effectively meet the demand for complementary applications or reduce the diversity in product valuations among consumers.  We analyze these forces and the factors that determine whether and when new features and functions are included in commercial operating system products.  We also explain how this integration and bundling spurs growth in the PC industry and fosters innovation. 
The Diffusion of Computers and the Distribution of Wages| Abstract When workers adopt technology at the point where the costs equal the increased productivity, output per worker increases immediately, while the productivity benefits increase only gradually if the costs continue to fall.  As a result, workers in computer-adopting labor market groups experience an immediate fall in wages due to increased supply.  On the other hand, adopting workers experience wage increases with some delay.  This model explains why increased computer use does not immediately lead to higher wage inequality.  More specifically, the results of the model are shown to be consistent with the question why within-group wage inequality among skilled workers as a result of computer technology adoption in the United States increased in the 1970s, while between-group wage inequality and within-group wage inequality among the unskilled did not start to increase until the 1980s.  The model also suggests that the slow diffusion of computer technology in Germany along with the absence of major changes in the wage structure in the 1980s is consistent with the more compressed German wage structure.  Finally, the theoretical predictions seem to be of the right magnitude to explain the empirical quantities observed in the data. 
Active Learning of Causal Bayes Net Structure| Abstract We propose a decision theoretic approach for deciding which interventions to perform so as to learn the causal structure of a model as quickly as possible.  Without such interventions, it is impossible to distinguish between Markov equivalent models, even given infinite data.  We perform online MCMC to estimate the posterior over graph structures, and use importance sampling to find the best action to perform at each step.  We assume the data is discrete-valued and fully observed. 
Learning the Structure of Dynamic Probabilistic Networks| Abstract Dynamic probabilistic networks are a compact
Sharing Features: Efficient Boosting Procedures for Multiclass Object Detection| Abstract We consider the problem of detecting a large number of different object classes in cluttered scenes.  Traditional approaches require applying a battery of different classifiers to the image, which can be slow and require much training data.  We present a multi-class boosting procedure (joint boosting) that reduces both the computational and sample complexity, by finding common features that can be shared across the classes.  The detectors for each class are trained jointly, rather than independently.  For a given performance level, the total number of features required is observed to scale approximately logarithmically with the number of classes.  In addition, we find that the features selected by independently trained classifiers are often specific to the class, whereas the features selected by the jointly trained classifiers are more generic features, such as lines and edges. 
The Equilibrium Distribution of Income and the Market for Status6| Abstract This paper explores the implications for risk-taking behavior and the equilibrium distribution of income of assuming that the desire for status positions is a powerful motive and that it raises the marginal utility of consumption.  In contrast to previous analyses, we consider the case where status positions are sold in an hedonic market.  We show that such a complete hedonic market in status positions can be perfectly replicated by a simpler arrangement with a `status good' and a social norm that assigns higher status to those that consume more of this good.  The main result is that for a wide range of initial conditions the equilibrium distribution of income, status and consumption are the same, that this allocation requires inequality of income and consumption, and that this allocation coincides with optimum of a utilitarian planner. 
Optimal Alignments in Linear Space using Automaton-derived Cost Functions (Extended Abstract) Submitted to CPM'96| Abstract In a previous paper [SM95], we showed
Specialization, Firms, and Markets: The Division of Labor Within and Between Law Firms| Abstract What is the role of firms and markets in mediating the division of labor? This paper uses confidential microdata from the Census of Services to examine law firms' boundaries.  We first examine how the specialization of lawyers and firms increases as lawyers' returns to specialization increase.  In fields where lawyers increasingly specialize with market size, the relationship between the share of lawyers who work in a field-specialized firm and market size indicates whether firms or markets more efficiently mediate relationships between lawyers in this and other fields.  We then examine which pairs of specialists tend to work in the same versus different firms; this provides evidence on the scope of firms that are not field-specialized.  We find that whether firms or markets mediate the division of labor varies across fields in a way that corresponds to differences in the value of cross-field referrals, consistent with Garicano and Santos' (2001) proposition that firms facilitate specialization by mediating exchanges of economic opportunities more efficiently than markets. 
Specific Knowledge and Performance Measurement| Abstract: This paper examines optimal incentives and performance measurement in a setting where an agent has specific knowledge about the consequences of his actions for the principal.  I study incentive contracts in which the agent's compensation can be based on both "input" measures closely related to the agent's actions, and "output" measures closely related to the principal's payo.  I argue that when the agent has specific knowledge (i. e.  private information that is dicult to communicate) about how his actions contribute to the principal's payo, output-based pay encourages the agent to use his knowledge while input-based pay does not.  I show within a two-task agency model that (partially) output-based compensation is optimal even when the agent's actions on each task can be measured perfectly.  Comparative statics results show how the optimal choice of performance measures and incentives depends on the agent's knowledge, environmental risk, technological uncertainty, and job complexity.  The theory leads to several novel predictions, as well as new explanations for existing empirical findings. 
Loopy Belief Propagation for Approximate Inference: An Empirical Study| Abstract Recently, researchers have demonstrated that ``loopy belief propagation" --- the use of Pearl's polytree algorithm in a Bayesian network with loops --- can perform well in the context of error-correcting codes.  The most dramatic instance of this is the near Shannon-limit performance of "Turbo Codes" --- codes whose decoding algorithm is equivalent to loopy belief propagation in a chain-structured Bayesian network.  In this paper we ask: is there something special about the error-correcting code context, or does loopy propagation work as an approximate inference scheme in a more general setting? We compare the marginals computed using loopy propagation to the exact ones in four Bayesian network architectures, including two real-world networks: ALARM and QMR.  We find that the loopy beliefs often converge and when they do, they give a good approximation to the correct marginals.  However, on the QMR network, the loopy beliefs oscillated and had no obvious relationship to the correct posteriors.  We present some initial investigations into the cause of these oscillations, and show that some simple methods of preventing them lead to the wrong results. 
Costs of Broad-Based Stock Option Plans| Abstract We generate estimates of the costs of broad-based stock option programs under varying assumptions about why firms use these pay schemes.  We show that, if accounting considerations alone drive option grants, a typical firm in our sample incurs between 50 cents and one dollar of real costs in order to increase reported pre-tax net income by $1.  This cost is reduced, but is still quite substantial, if accounting leads firms to grant options rather than restricted stock.  We also show that, if option grants are efficient, the patterns in our data are consistent with firms using these grants to attract and retain employees. 
Using the Forest to See the Trees: A Graphical Model Relating Features, Objects, and Scenes| Abstract Standard approaches to object detection focus on local patches of the image, and try to classify them as background or not.  We propose to use the scene context (image as a whole) as an extra source of (global) information, to help resolve local ambiguities.  We present a conditional random field for jointly solving the tasks of object detection and scene classification. 
The Bayes Net Toolbox for Matlab| Abstract The Bayes Net Toolbox (BNT) is an open-source Matlab package for directed graphical models.  BNT supports many kinds of nodes (probability distributions), exact and approximate inference, parameter and structure learning, and static and dynamic models.  BNT is widely used in teaching and research: the web page has received over 28,000 hits since May 2000.  In this paper, we discuss a broad spectrum of issues related to graphical models (directed and undirected), and describe, at a high-level, how BNT was designed to cope with them all.  We also compare BNT to other software packages for graphical models, and to the nascent OpenBayes effort. 
Switching Kalman Filters| Abstract We show how many different variants of Switching Kalman Filter models can be represented in a unified way, leading to a single, general-purpose inference algorithm.  We then show how to find approximate Maximum Likelihood Estimates of the parameters using the EM algorithm, extending previous results on learning using EM in the non-switching case [DRO93, GH96a] and in the switching, but fully observed, case [Ham90]. 
A Variational Approximation for Bayesian Networks with Discrete and Continuous Latent Variables| Abstract We show how to use a variational approximation to the logistic function to perform approximate inference in Bayesian networks containing discrete nodes with continuous parents.  Essentially, we convert the logistic function to a Gaussian, which facilitates exact inference, and then iteratively adjust the variational parameters to improve the quality of the approximation.  We demonstrate experimentally that this approximation is much faster than sampling, but comparable in accuracy.  We also introduce a simple new technique for handling evidence, which allows us to handle arbitrary distributionson observed nodes, as well as achieving a significant speedup in networks with discrete variables of large cardinality. 
How Does Education Affect Health Decisions? The Cases of Smoking and HIV/AIDS| (Preliminary -- Comments welcome).  for giving me access to the data set collected by the joint project of the GTZ and the Ugandan Ministry of Health.  I also thank Sarah Darby, from Oxford University, for sending me her data set about the cumulative risk of lung cancer in the UK.  I thank
Passively Learning Finite Automata| Abstract We provide a survey of methods for inferring the structure of a finite automaton from passive observation of its behavior.  We consider both deterministic automata and probabilistic automata (similar to Hidden Markov Models).  While it is computationally intractible to solve the general problem exactly, we will consider heuristic algorithms, and also special cases which are tractible.  Most of the algorithms we consider are based on the idea of building a tree which encodes all of the examples we have seen, and then merging equivalent nodes to produce a (near) minimal automaton. 
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN YOU TAX THE RICH? EVIDENCE FROM EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION| Abstract This paper examines the responsiveness of taxable income to changes in marginal tax rates using detailed compensation data on several thousand corporate executives from 1991 to 1995.  The data confirm that the higher marginal rates of 1993 led to a significant decline in taxable income.  Indeed, this small group of executives can account for as much as 20% of the aggregate change in wage and salary income for approximately the one million richest taxpayers; one person alone can account for more than 2%.  The decline, however, is almost entirely a short-run shift in the timing of compensation rather than a permanent reduction in taxable income.  The short-run elasticity of taxable income with respect to the net of tax share exceeds one but the elasticity after one year is at most 0. 4 and probably closer to zero.  Breaking out the tax responsiveness of different types of compensation shows that the large short-run responses come almost entirely from a large increase in the exercise of stock options by the highest income executives in anticipation of the rate increases.  Executives without stock options, executives with relatively lower incomes, and more conventional forms of taxable compensation such as salary and bonus show little responsiveness to tax changes.  ___________
An Economic Approach to Cultural Capital| Abstract This paper introduces a sociological notion of cultural capital into economics.  This is modeled as an infinitely repeated game in which the likelihood of future play (i. e.  discount factor) is a function of group specific human capital investments made by the agents before the interactions begin.  It is shown that: (1) some individuals expected to make group-specific human capital investments are worse o2 because their observed investment behavior is used as a "cultural identifier" vis--vis the endogenous probability of continuation play; (2) equilibria exhibit bipolar human capital investment behavior by individuals of similar innate ability; (3) as social mobility increases, this bi-polarization increases; and (4) popular policy prescriptions such as educational and job interventions designed to encourage human capital acquisition can have adverse results in the cultural capital model. 
Executive Stock Options with Effort Disutility and Choice of Volatility| Abstract We consider the problem of an executive that receives call options as compensation in a dynamic setting.  She can influence the stock price return with her effort.  In addition, she determines the level of volatility of the stock through the choice of projects.  The executive is risk-averse and experiences disutility from the effort.  In this framework, we introduce the problem of the company that wants to maximize the final expected value of the price of the stock minus the cost of the compensation package.  The company has to design a compensation package such that the executive reaches the minimum level of utility or opportunity cost (individual rationality constraint).  We characterize the optimal strike price the company should choose, and compute it numerically for the logarithmic case.  When the executive can affect the mean return of the stock, we find that in the vast majority of cases options should be granted outof-the-money.  A key parameter in the model is the parameter that measures the quality of the projects.  When this parameter is very high, it is optimal to grant stock rather than options.  We distinguish between \large" companies, that emphasize the expected value of the stock, and \small" companies, that are more interested in keeping the cost of the compensation low.  We find that stock is more likely to be the optimal contract for small companies. 
Restructuring Top Management: Evidence from Corporate Spinoffs *| Abstract: There has been substantial research on both asset restructuring and top management changes.  The connection between the two, however, has received little attention.  Here, we examine spinoffs as events through which top management is restructured.  Our main findings are: 1) both firm-specific human capital and more general human capital, such as governance expertise and top management experience, affect the composition of spinoff firms' top management, 2) the structure of spinoff top management is related to the value created by a spinoff, and 3) for a subsample of firms, spinoffs serve as a form of management dismissal, with the opportunity to manage a smaller, weaker spinoff firm serving as a "consolation prize. 
Rao-Blackwellised Particle Filtering for Dynamic Bayesian Networks| Abstract Particle lters (PFs) are powerful samplingbased inference/learning algorithms for dynamic Bayesian networks (DBNs).  They allow us to treat, in a principled way, any type of probability distribution, nonlinearity and non-stationarity.  They have appeared in several elds under such names as ^condensatio,^sequential Monte Carlo~ and ^survival of the ttest~.  In this paper, we show how we can exploit the structure of the DBN to increase the efciency of particle ltering, using a technique known as RaoBlackwellisation.  Essentially, this samples some of the variables, and marginalizes out the rest exactly, using the Kalman lter, HMM lter, junction tree algorithm, or any other nite dimensional optimal lter.  We show that RaoBlackwellised particle lters (RBPFs) lead to more accurate estimates than standard PFs.  We demonstrate RBPFs on two problems, namely non-stationary online regression with radial basis function networks and robot localization and map building.  We also discuss other potential application areas and provide references to some nite dimensional optimal lters. 
Experience-dependent development of NMDAR1 subunit expression in the lateral geniculate nucleus| Abstract Monocular deprivation early in postnatal development leads to anatomical and physiological changes in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and visual cortex.  Many of these changes are dependent upon activation of the NMDA receptor.  We have examined the role of visual experience in modifying NMDAR1 subunit expression in the LGN of animals reared with various forms of visual deprivation.  Following monocular deprivation initiated either at eye opening or at the peak of the critical period, there were approximately 20% fewer NMDAR1-immunopositive neurons in the deprived laminae of the LGN.  The loss of NMDAR1-immunopositive neurons was found throughout both the binocular and monocular segments of the LGN and after monocular deprivation until just 3 weeks of age.  These results indicate that the loss of NMDAR1 in the LGN following monocular deprivation does not simply reflect changes in the visual cortex.  The loss of NMDAR1 expression was not necessarily permanent.  Initiation of binocular vision at the peak of the critical period ameliorated the effect of monocular deprivation and the introduction of a period of reverse occlusion led to a complete reversal.  Taken together, the results show that the expression of the NMDAR1 subunit in the LGN can be modified by the pattern of visual experience during postnatal development. 
Market Misvaluation and Merger Activity: Evidence from Managerial Insider Trading| ABSTRACT This paper tests the empirical predictions of the market misvaluation theory of mergers advanced by Rhodes-Kropf and Vishwanathan (2004) and Shleifer and Vishny (2003) using data on managerial insider trading around merger announcements.  I first present evidence of opportunistic insider trading by acquirer-firm managers prior to mergers.  Acquirer-firm managers abnormally increase their selling prior to stock mergers suggesting those deals might be overvalued.  I then construct a misvaluation measure based on the magnitude and direction of managerial trades prior to the merger and use it to test the empirical predictions of the misvaluation theory.  To the extent that managerial trading is motivated by misvaluation, I find consistent differences in the merger characteristics and long-run returns of overvalued and undervalued firms.  Overvalued firms are more likely to conduct stock mergers, have high premerger but negative post-merger excess long-run returns and receive negative market reaction to their acquisition announcements.  My results support the theory that market misvaluation affects merger activity. 
Inference and Learning in Hybrid Bayesian Networks| Abstract We survey the literature on methods for inference and learning in Bayesian Networks composed of discrete and continuous nodes, in which the continuous nodes have a multivariate Gaussian distribution, whose mean and variance depends on the values of the discrete nodes.  We also briefly consider hybrid Dynamic Bayesian Networks, an extension of switching Kalman filters.  This report is meant to summarize what is known at a sucient level of detail to enable someone to implement the algorithms, but without dwelling on formalities.  1 1 Update The algorithm described in this report, due to [Lau92] (see also [CDLS99, ch.  7]), has been implemented as part of my Bayes Net Toolbox 2 .  However, it can be numerically unstable.  A different algorithm, which fixes this problem, is described in [LJ99].  Other references to more recent material have also been added where appropriate. 
CS280 Project, Spring 1996: Grouping of Color and Texture Features for Automated Image Annotation| Abstract We present a system for automated image annotation which is capable of detecting concepts such as sky, water and man-made structure in color images.  The processing of each image consists of a feature extraction stage and a grouping stage.  The ensuing concept-recognition is accomplished using a decision tree.  The pixel-level features consist of basic color and texture information.  The color information consists of hue, saturation and value (intensity) data and the texture information is obtained using the windowed-image second moment matrix.  The pixel-level features are quantized into one of a dozen or so bins based on an empirically determined perceptual partitioning of color/texture space.  The set of binary images associated with this quantization step are each grouped in parallel according to three different strategies.  The three grouping strategies seek to form regions according to (1) solid contiguity, (2) similarity in local orientation and (3) similarity in diffuseness.  As an example, one of the above mentioned binary images contains a 1 at each point where the original image contains a pixel with a bluish hue.  Should the input image contain clear blue sky above the horizon, the first grouping strategy would produce a large connected region in the binary image representing the pixels with a light-blue color.  The second grouping strategy would abort due to lack of orientation strength and the third strategy would fail since the sky-blob is not diffuse.  Each blob is represented by a feature vector containing its area, coordinates in the image, eccentricity, principle orientation, mean saturation and mean intensity, as well as by the color/texture bin and grouping strategy which gave rise to it.  These feature vectors are the input to the decision tree classifier.  The decision tree attempts to assign a label to each blob according to these characteristics. 
Modeling Freeway Traffic with Coupled HMMs| Abstract We consider the problem of modeling loop detector data collected from freeways.  The data, which is a vector time-series, contains the speed of vehicles, averaged over a 30 second sampling window, at a number of sites along the freeway.  We assume the measured speed at each location is generated from a hidden discrete variable, which represents the underlying state (e. g. , congested or free-flowing) of the traffic at that point in space and time.  We further assume that the hidden variables only depend on their spatial-temporal neighbors.  Such a model is called a coupled hidden Markov model (CHMM).  We can fit the parameters of this model using EM.  However, since exact inference is intractable, we consider two different approximation schemes: one based on a sequential Monte Carlo technique (particle filtering), and the other based on the Boyen-Koller (BK) algorithm.  We show that both algorithms perform well, compared to exact inference, and that the resulting learned model captures many important features of the data.  Such a macroscopic model could prove useful for fault diagnosis, and in predicting future traffic patterns, particularly in response to causal interventions. 
INVESTMENT SUBSIDIES AND WAGES IN CAPITAL GOODS INDUSTRIES: TO THE WORKERS GO THE SPOILS?| Abstract This paper looks at the impact of investment tax subsidies on the labor market for capital goods workers.  Using data during a decade with considerable variation in the tax cost of capital (1979-1988), the results show that tax subsidies to investment drive up workers' wages.  A 10% investment tax credit, for example, raises the relative wages of capital goods workers, on average, by 2. 5%-3. 0% relative to comparable manufacturing workers in other sectors and more for certain types of workers.  Rising wages make up an important part of the rising supply curve for capital goods and reflects imperfect short-run mobility of production workers across sectors. 
CAD DIRECTED ROBOTIC DEBURRING| ABSTRACT Robots prove advantageous for the deburring of machined parts because they are more repeatable than humans and suffer no fatigue.  However, most deburring robots are programmed manually, requiring a large investment in programming time. 
Adaptive Organizations !| Abstract This paper is concerned with the three-way trade-o! between coordination, specialization and adaptation, and its implications for organizational design.  Every organized activity gives rise to two conicting requirements: the division of labor into manageable tasks and the coordination of these tasks to ensure harmonious execution.  In a stable environment, however, coordination can be trivially achieved by letting employees blindly stick to a set of prescribed guidelines.  Thus, the demand for coordination is endogenous and depends on how `adaptivethe organization is to an uncertain environment.  We show how this endogenous demand for coordination results in strong complementarities between organizational decision variables: task specialization, employee discretion, the quality of horizontal coordination, and the size of management.  Moreover, in contrast to previous claims in the literature, the degree of task interdependence and improvements in communication technology are shown to have a decidedly ambiguous impact on specialization and the division of labor. 
Rao-Blackwellised particle filtering for dynamic bayesian networks|
The allocation of talent: implications for growth,|
The Division of Labor, Coordination Costs, And Knowledge,|
Compensation and incentives: practice vs|
Social Economics: Market Behavior in a Social Environment|
Supply and demand factors|
Dynamic Bayesian Networks: Representation, Inference and Learning|
Wage inequality and the rise in returns to skill|
Optimal incentive contracts in the presence of career concerns: Theory and evidence|
Modelling gene expression data using dynamic Bayesian networks|
Incentives, Learning, and Compensation: A Theoretical and Empirical Investigation of Managerial Labor Contracts,|
Changes in Relative Wages: Supply and Demand Factors,"|
and Ivn Werning,|
Cattle Cycles,"|
Industrialization and the Big Push,"|
Implicit contracts and the theory of the firm, Working paper,|
Estimation and inference in two-step econometric models|
Relational contracts and the theory of the firm|
Bringing the Market Inside the Firm?|
A Theory of Rational Addiction|
Empirical Age-Earnings Profiles,"|
Income Distribution, Market Size and Industrialization,|
Cheaters Never Win|
Non-uniform distribution of the NMDAR1 receptor subunit in kitten visual cortex at the peak of the critical period|
Reduced visual acuity in both eyes of monocularly deprived kittens following a short or long period of reverse occlusion|
Performance Pay and Top-Management Incentives,|
Executive Compensation,"|
The Economic Value of Medical Research|
An empirical analysis of cigarette addiction,|
Persuasion in politics|
Sharing visual features for multiclass and multiview object detection|
Wages, Skills and Technology in the United States and Canada,"|
A brief introduction to graphical models and bayesian networks|
Parameter estimation techniques for interaction and redistribution models: a predator-prey example,|
Applying the junction tree alogirthm to variable-length DBNs|
Wage inequality and Family Labor Supply",|
in \Sequential Monte-Carlo methods in practice",|
Wages, skills, and technology in the United States and Canada, 283-309|
Why Has the Natural Unemployment Rate Increased Over Time?|
Finis| "Wage Premiums for College Graduates Recent Growth and Possible Explanations. 
Bayes Net Toolkit,|
Accounting for the Slowdown in BlackWhite Wage Convergence",|
HMM toolbox for Matlab|
Executive Compensation," in Orley Ashenfelter and David Card, eds|,. 
Population and economic growth",|
Why Has the Natural Rate of Unemployment Increased over Time?"|
Governmental regulation of cigarette health information",|
and WELCH Finnis, "The Structure of Wages",|
"The Economic Value of Medical Knowledge", Working Paper,|
Employment and the 1990-1991 Minimum-Wage Hike",|
Automata-Theoretic Models of Mutation and Alignment|
Why is Rent-Seeking So Costly to Growth?",|
Bayes Net Toolbox 2|0 for Matlab 5,. 
Protein structure and the energetics of protein stability|
Thermodynamics of structural stability and cooperative folding behavior in proteins|
Performance standards in incentive contracts,|
Subjective Performance Measures in Optimal Incentive Contracts|
^Performance Measurement and Appraisal: Motivating Managers to Identify and Reward Performance,~|
Stock options for undiversified executives|
Separate neural subsystems within `Wernicke's area'|
Executive Compensation and Modern Industrial Revolution|
The trouble with stock options,|
Human capital, fertility, and economic growth|
Change in Relative Wages|
The Factored Frontier Algorithm for Approximate Inference in DBNs|
Space-Efficient Inference in Dynamic Probabilistic Networks|
Dynamic bayesian networks for audio-visual speech recognition|
Applying the junction tree algorithm to variable-length DBNs|
Pearl's algorithm and multiplexer nodes|
Embedded graphical models|
Relative performance evaluation for chief executive officers,|
`Ground Vehicle Control at NIST: From Teleoperation to Autonomy'|
Cortical and subcortical control of tongue movement in humans: A functional neuroimaging study using fMRI|
Corporate Performance and Managerial Remuneration: An empirical Analysis,"|
Stock-based pay in new economy firms,|
Explaining executive compensation: Managerial power versus the perceived cost of stock options,|
Solid model compounds and the thermodynamics of protein unfolding|
Informal Authority in Organizations|
Building Blocks of Market Clearing Business Cycle Models|
Learning Bayes net structure from sparse data sets|
Filtering and smoothing in linear dynamical systems using the junction tree algorithm|
"Kalman Filter Toolbox - Tutorial",|
Incentives, Downsizing and Value Creation at General Dynamics,"|
Analysis of Planar Model for Two Limiting Cases| Dynamically Stable Legged Locomotion". 
Financial performance surrounding CEO Turnover,|
A simple theory of advertising as good or bad|
The First ISLSCP Field Experiment (FIFE),|
Reversibility of T helper 1 and 2 populations is lost after long-term stimulation|
T-bet is a STAT1-induced regulator of IL-12R expression in naive CD4(+) T cells|
Functional diversity of helper T lymphocytes|
The lineage decisions of helper T cells|
Inhibition of Th1 development mediated by GATA-3 through an IL-4-independent mechanism|
Cutting edge: identification of an alternative GATA-3 promoter directing tissue-specific gene expression in mouse and human|
An instructive component in T helper cell type 2 (Th2) development mediated by GATA-3|
The family and the state"|
Ownership and Market Valuation: An Empirical Analysis,"|
The Evolution of Unemployment in the United States:|
American Economic Review; 396-418|
"989) ^Income Distribution, Market Size and Industrialization,~|
Estimation of the conductivity in the one-phase Stefan problem: Basic results,|
PROSPER study group| Pravastatin in elderly individuals at risk of vascular disease (PROSPER): a randomised controlled trial. 
Finis|
A survey of POMDP solution techniques|
Learning switching Kalman-#lter models|
Supersonic Aerodynamic Characteristics of Proposed Mars '07 Smart Lander Configurations," AIAA Paper 2002-4409,|
Elevated cyclooxygenase-2 expression correlates with diminished survival in carcinoma of the cervix treated with radiotherapy|
Harvard Business School Press)|
From belief propagation to expectation propagation|
Optimal Exercise Prices for Executive Stock Options,"|
Separate neural pathways for the visual analysis of object shape in perception and prehension|
Finis| "Industrial Change and the Rising Importance of Skill,". 
Cohort Size and Earnings in the USA',|
Hidden Markov Model Toolbox,|
Accounting for the Slowdown in Black-White Wage Convergence," title,|
"992): "Optimal Incentive Contracts in the presence of Career Concerns,"|
"Path Planning for Autonomous Vehicles Driving Over Rough Terrain",|
Performance Evaluation of UGV Obstacle Detection with CCD/FLIR Stereo Vision and LADAR|
"The Role of International Trade in Wage Differentials|" In Workers and Their Wages: Changing Patterns in the United States, edited by. 
Ligand-induced autoregulation of IFN-gamma receptor beta chain expression in T helper cell subsets,|
Bayes Net Toolbox v5|
"Unemployment and Nonemployment,|
"Current Unemployment, Historically Contemplated",|
The Matlab bayesian network toolbox|
Efficiency Wages Reconsidered: Theory and Evidence,|
Remuneration: where we've been, how we got to here, what are the problems, and how to fix them",|
Does executive compensation a4 ect investment?,|
An empirical investigation of the microstructure of knowledge acquisition and transfer through learning by doing|
`The Prince and the Pauper? CEO Pay in the United States and the United Kingdom,'|
Designing online coursework mindfully|
Changes in Relative Wages, 1963-87: Supply and Demand Factors,|
The autonav / dot project: Baseline measurement system for evaluation of roadway departure warning systems,"|
Raoblackwellized partcile filtering for dynamic bayesian networks|
An introduction to graphical models|
Cellular and peptide requirements for in vitro clonal deletion of immature thymocytes|
"A Theory of Rational Addictions|". 
Relational Contracts and the Theory of the Firm| Forthcoming in Quarterly Journal of Economics. 
Informal Authority in|
Filtering, smoothing and the junction tree algorithm|
"The Sorting of Individuals into Categories when Tastes and Productivity Depend on the Composition of Members", unpublished manuscript,|
Fitting a constrained conditional gaussian|
In erence and learning in hybrid Bayesian networks|
Quality and Trade|
"993): "Wage Inequality and the Rise in Returns from Skills,"|
Autonomous Mobility for the Demo III Experimental Unmanned Vehicles",|
The Bayesian Net Toolbox for Matlab|
activin receptor type 1B) gene mutations in pancreatic carcinoma|
"The Economics of Copyright `Fair Use' in a Networked World|
"4D/RCS Version 2|0: A Reference Model Architecture for Unmanned Vehicle Systems,. 
Unemployment, Risk and Earnings|
An overview of the First ISLSCP Field Experiment|
X-33 Aerodynamic/Aerothermodynamic|
Capital, Fertility, and Economic Growth,"|
\Stock Options for Undiversi#ed Executives," working paper,|
Eds|,. 
Finis| "Perspectives on the Social Security Crisis and Proposed. 
Criteria for enrolling dementia patients in hospice|
Lessons from Epirical Labor Economis:|
Homepage|". 
Increasing Returns, Industrialization and the Big Push,"|
Development and Test Results for a Vision-Based Approach to Advanced Vehicle Control Systems (AVCS)",|
Rational Addiction and the E|
Inequality and Relative Wages",|
Occupational Change and the Demand for Skill, 1940-1990",|
Changes in the Wage Structure,|
1990] 'Performance Pay and Top--Management Incentives',|
Instructor Interactions in Distance Education Environments: A Case Study| Paper presented at the annual Distance Education Conference. 
"A Theory of Rational Addition,"|
A computational model for the overall pattern of ocular dominance|
Ashenfelter and Card (eds|),. 
Development of a Cleaning and Deburring Workstation for the AMRF",|
\Rao-Blackwellized particle filtering for dynamic Bayesian networks,"|
Strategic Alliances: Bridges between `Islands of Conscious power',|
"Executive Compensation," forthcoming|
Lessons from Empirical Labor Economics:|
Learning finite automata|
Empirical Age-Earning Profiles|
Wages and Technology in the United States and Canada" forthcoming|
Whyisrent-seekingsocostlyforgrowth?"|
Diminishing Returns? The Costs and Benefits of Improving Health,"|
Speech production: Wernicke, Broca and beyond|
Changes in Relative Wages,|
Learning the structure of dynamic probabilistic betworks|
Accessing Elaborations on Core Information in a Hypermedia Environment|
"The Evolution of the PC Operating System: An Economic Analysis of Software Design," June 29|
Entry, Pricing and Product Design in an Initially Monopolized Market|
A Competitive Perspective on Internet Explorer,|
URL http://citeseer|
Trotting and bounding in a planar two-legged model|
Remuneration: Where We've Been, How we got to Here,|
The trouble with Stock Options| Working Paper,. 
Why Has the Natural Rate of Unemployment Increased Over Time,"|
\Estimation and Inference in Two Steps Econometric Models|". 
Determinants of contract duration in collective bargaining agreements|',. 
What e ect does uncertainty have on the length of labor contracts?"|
ndustrialization and the Big Push'|
Study of the vibrational level dependent quenching of CO#v # 1--16# by CO 2 ,|
A Dynamic Bayesian Approach to Figure Tracking using Learned Dynamical Models|
State pension funds and shareholder inactivism|
Intelligent control for o-road driving|
6-Ckine (SLC), a lymphocyte adhesion-triggering chemokine expressed by high endothelium, is an agonist for the MIP-3beta receptor CCR7|
X-33 Aerodynamic Computations and Comparisons with Wind Tunnel Data,"|
Executive Compensaition|
Intelligent Control for Unmanned Vehicles,|
Convergence in State Nominal and Real Per Capita Income: Empirical Evidence,'|
"Measuring the Impact of Crack Cocaine," National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper #11318|
