Segmentation from motion: combining Gabor- and Mallat-wavelets to overcome the aperture and correspondence problems| Abstract A segmentation-from-motion algorithm is presented, which is designed to be part of a general object recognition system.  The key idea is to integrate information from Gabor- and Mallat-wavelet transform to overcome the aperture and the correspondence problem.  The assumption is made that objects move fronto-parallel.  Gabor-wavelet responses allow precise estimation of image #owvectors with low spatial resolution.  A histogram over this image flow field is evaluated, its local maxima providing motion hypotheses.  These serve to reduce the correspondence problem on the Mallat-wavelet transform, which provides the required high resolution.  The segmentation reliability is improved byintegration over time.  The system can segmenteven small, disconnected, and openworked objects of arbitrary number, such as dot patterns.  Several examples demonstrate the performance of the system and show, that the algorithm behaves reasonably even if the assumption of fronto-parallel motion is strongly violated. 
Face Recognition and Gender Determination \Lambda| Abstract The system presented here is a specialized version of a general object recognition system.  Images of faces are represented as graphs, labeled with topographical information and local templates.  Different poses are represented by different graphs.  New graphs of faces are generated by an elastic graph matching procedure comparing the new face with a set of precomputed graphs: the "general face knowledge".  The final phase of the matching process can be used to generate composite images of faces and to determine certain features represented in the general face knowledge, such as gender or the presence of glasses or a beard.  The graphs can be compared by a similarity function which makes the system efficient in recognizing faces. 
On the analysis and interpretation of inhomogeneous quadratic forms as receptive fields| Abstract In this paper we introduce some mathematical and numerical tools to analyze and interpret inhomogeneous quadratic forms.  The resulting
CuBICA: Independent Component Analysis by Simultaneous Third- and Fourth-Order Cumulant Diagonalization| Computer Science Preprint Server (CSPS): Computational Intelligence/.  Abstract CuBICA, an improved method for independent component analysis (ICA) based on the diagonalization of cumulant tensors is proposed.  It is based on Comon's algorithm [1994a] but it takes third- and fourth-order cumulant tensors into account simultaneously.  The underlying contrast function is also mathematically much simpler and has a more intuitive interpretation.  It is therefore easier to optimize and approximate.  A comparison with Comon's and three other ICA-algorithms on different data sets demonstrates its performance. 
Phantom faces for face analysis| Abstract The system presented is part of a general object recognition system.  Images of faces are represented as graphs, labeled with topographical information and local features.  New graphs of faces are generated by an elastic graph matching procedure comparing the new face with a composition of stored graphs:
Face Recognition by Elastic Bunch Graph Matching| Abstract We present a system for recognizing human faces from single images out of a large database containing one image per person.  Faces are represented by labeled graphs, based on a Gabor wavelet transform.  Image graphs of new faces are extracted by an elastic graph matching process and can be compared by a simple similarity function.  The system differs from the preceding one [1] in three respects.  Phase information is used for accurate node positioning.  Object-adapted graphs are used to handle large rotations in depth.  Image graph extraction is based on a novel data structure, the bunch graph, which is constructed from a small set of sample image graphs. 
The role of topographical constraints in face recognition| Abstract The role of topographical constraints for recognition performance is investigated systematically for the case of face recognition.  Images are represented by rectangular graphs labeled with jets, based on a Gabor wavelet transform.  Topographical constraints are varied between rigid and no constraints.  A comparison with two elastic graph matching algorithms is made.  The simple methods presented in this paper and elastic graph matching perform comparably on easy galleries, i. e.  different facial expression or 11 rotation in depth.  On a 22 gallery, elastic graph matching performs significantly better. 
Face Recognition by Dynamic Link Matching| Abstract We present a neural system for the recognition of objects from realistic images, together with results of tests of face recognition from a large gallery.  The system is inherently invariant with respect to shift, and is robust against many other variations, most notably rotation in depth and deformation.  The system is based on Dynamic Link Matching.  It consists of an image domain and a model domain, which we tentatively identify with primary visual cortex and infero-temporal cortex.  Both domains have the form of neural sheets of hypercolumns, which are composed of simple feature detectors (modeled as Gabor-based wavelets).  Each object is represented in memory by a separate model sheet, that is, a two-dimensional array of features.  The match of the image to the models is performed by network self-organization, in which rapid reversible synaptic plasticity of the connections ("dynamic links") between the two domains is controlled by signal correlations, which are shaped by fixed inter-columnar connections and by the dynamic links themselves.  The system requires very little genetic or learned structure, relying essentially on the rules of rapid synaptic plasticity and the a priori constraint of preservation of topography to find matches.  This constraint is encoded within the neural sheets with the help of lateral connections, which are excitatory over short range and inhibitory over long range. 
Phantom Faces for Face Analysis \Lambda| Abstract The system presented here is a specialized version of a general object recognition system. 
Face Recognition by Dynamic Link Matching| Abstract We present here a system for invariant and robust recognition of objects from camera images.  The system aspires both to be a model for biological object vision (at least an ontogenetically early form of it) and to be at the cutting edge of technological achievement.  Our model is based on the principles of temporal feature binding and dynamic link matching.  Objects are stored in the form of two-dimensional aspects.  These are competitively matched against current images.  During the matching process, complete matrices of dynamic links between the image and all models are refined by a process of rapid selforganization, the final state connecting only corresponding points in image and object models.  As data format for representing images we use local sets ("jets") of Gabor-based wavelets.  We have tested the performance of our system by having it recognize human faces against data bases of more than one hundred images.  The system is invariant with respect to retinal position, and it is robust with respect to head rotation, scale, facial deformation and illumination.  The source code for this model is available by anonymous ftp 1 and respective simulation instructions are given in this report. 
Segmentation from Motion: Combining Gabor- and Mallat-Wavelets to Overcome Aperture and Correspondence Problem \Lambda| Abstract A segmentation-from-motion algorithm is presented, which is designed to be part of a general object recognition system.  The key idea is to integrate information from Gabor- and Mallat-wavelet transform to overcome the aperture and the correspondence problem.  The assumption is made that objects move fronto-parallel. 
Slow feature analysis yields a rich repertoire of complex cell properties| Abstract In this study we investigate
Proceedings of the Intern| Workshop on Automatic Face- and Gesture-Recognition,.  Abstract The system presented here is a specialized version of a general object recognition system.  Images of faces are represented as graphs, labeled with topographical information and local templates.  Different poses are represented by different graphs.  New graphs of faces are generated by an elastic graph matching procedure comparing the new face with a set of precomputed graphs: the "general face knowledge".  The final phase of the matching process can be used to generate composite images of faces and to determine certain features represented in the general face knowledge, such as gender or the presence of glasses or a beard.  The graphs can be compared by a similarity function which makes the system efficient in recognizing faces. 
CuBICA: Independent Component Analysis by Simultaneous Third- and Fourth-Order Cumulant Diagonalization| Abstract--- CuBICA, an improved method for independent component analysis (ICA) based on the diagonalization of cumulant tensors is proposed.  It is based on Comon's algorithm [1] but it takes third- and fourth-order cumulant tensors into account simultaneously.  The underlying contrast function is also mathematically much simpler and has a more intuitive interpretation.  It is therefore easier to optimize and approximate.  A comparison with Comon's and three other ICA-algorithms on different data sets demonstrates its performance. 
An Improved Cumulant Based Method for Independent Component Analysis| Abstract.  An improved method for independent component analysis based on the diagonalization of cumulant tensors is proposed.  It is based on Comon's algorithm [1] but it takes third- and fourth-order cumulant tensors into account simultaneously.  The underlying contrast function is also mathematically much simpler and has a more intuitive interpretation.  It is therefore easier to optimize and approximate.  A comparison with Comon's algorithm, JADE [2] and FastICA [3] on different data sets demonstrates its performance. 
Reconstruction from graphs labeled with responses of Gabor filters| Abstract.  The work presented is part of a larger effort to build a general object recognition system.  Objects as well as human faces are represented by graphs labeled with Gabor filter responses.  We describe an optimal method to reconstruct images from such graphs.  Two examples of how this can be used to analyze the object representation or to compensate for its deficiencies are presented.  Since the reconstruction method is formulated generally for an arbitray set of linear filters, it can also be applied to data produced by other systems, artificial or biological. 
Objective Functions for Neural Map Formation|
Christoph von der Malsburg| Face Recognition by Elastic Bunch Graph Matching. 
von der Malsburg "Face Recognition by Elastic Bunch Graph Matching" Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence,|
How does our visual system achieve shift and size invariance?|
A Neural System for the Recognition of Partially Occluded Objects in Cluttered Scenes: A Pilot Study|
Slow Feature Analysis: Unsupervised Learning of Invariances|
Norbert Kruger, and Christoph von der Malsburg| Face recognition by elastic bunch graph matching. 
Constrained Optimization for Neural Map Formation: A Unifying Framework for Weight Growth and Normalization|
Slow feature analysis yields a rich repertoire of complex-cell properties| Cognitive Sciences EPrint Archive (CogPrint) 2804,. 
Applying Slow Feature Analysis to Image Sequences Yields a Rich Repertoire of Complex Cell Properties|
LabeledGraphs and Dynamic Link Matching for FaceRecognition and Scene Analysis|
Recognizing Faces by Dynamic Link Matching|
Face recognition by elastic bunch graph matching| IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence,. 
Malsburg, "Face Recognition by Elastic Bunch Graph Matching,|
Norbert Kruger, and Christoph von der Malsburg,|
Is slowness a learning principle of the visual cortex?|
Norbert Kruger, and Christoph von der Malsburg| Face recognition and gender determination. 
Malsburg|
Christoph von der Malsburg, "Face Recognition by Elastic Graph Matching," Intelligent Biometric Techniques in Fingerprint and Face Recognition,|
Slow feature analyUnsupervised learning invariances,|
Reconstruction from Graphs Labeled with Responses of Gabor Filters|
Dynamic link matching with running blobs|
Nonlinear blind source separation by integrating independent component analysis and slow feature analysis|
Krger N, Malsburg C| Face recognition by elastic bunch graph matching. 
Estimating attributes: analysis and extension of relief,|
