Sparse Online Gaussian Processes| Accepted in Neural Computation Minor corrections included a a The authors acknowledge reader feedbacks Abstract We develop an approach for sparse representations of Gaussian Process (GP) models (which are Bayesian types of kernel machines) in order to overcome their limitations for large data sets.  The method is based on a combination of a Bayesian online algorithm together with a sequential construction of a relevant subsample of the data which fully specifies the prediction of the GP model.  By using an appealing parametrisation and projection techniques that use the RKHS norm, recursions for the eective parameters and a sparse Gaussian approximation of the posterior process are obtained.  This allows both for a propagation of predictions as well as of Bayesian error measures.  The significance and robustness of our approach is demonstrated on a variety of experiments. 
TAP Gibbs Free Energy, Belief Propagation and Sparsity| Abstract The adaptive TAP Gibbs free energy for a general densely connected probabilistic model with quadratic interactions and arbritary single site constraints is derived.  We show how a specific sequential minimization of the free energy leads to a generalization of Minka's expectation propagation.  Lastly, we derive a sparse representation version of the sequential algorithm.  The usefulness of the approach is demonstrated on classification and density estimation with Gaussian processes and on an independent component analysis problem. 
Accepted for publication - to appear in Proceeding of NIPS vol| 13 Sparse Representation for Gaussian Process Models.  Abstract We develop an approach for a sparse representation for Gaussian Process (GP) models in order to overcome the limitations of GPs caused by large data sets.  The method is based on a combination of a Bayesian online algorithm together with a sequential construction of a relevant subsample of the data which fully specifies the prediction of the model.  Experimental results on toy examples and large real-world datasets indicate the efficiency of the approach. 
Gaussian Processes --- Iterative Sparse Approximations|
Multivariate Genetic Evaluation in the Hungarian Large White and Landrace Populations|
Sparse Gaussian Processes|
