Prediction on Spike Data Using Kernel Algorithms| Abstract We report and compare the performance of different learning algorithms based on data from cortical recordings.  The task is to predict the orientation of visual stimuli from the activity of a population of simultaneously recorded neurons.  We compare several ways of improving the coding of the input (i. e. , the spike data) as well as of the output (i. e. , the orientation), and report the results obtained using different kernel algorithms. 
Forward-Angle| Abstract Forward-angle coincident electroproduction cross sections of charged pions from 3 He have been measured at electron energies E 0
Investigation of short-range nucleon-nucleon correlations using the reaction| Abstract Two-proton correlations were studied in close to 4geometry using the reaction 12 C(e; e 0 pp).  The beam energy was 705 MeV, the energy transfer 225MeV, and the three-momentum transfer 412 MeV/c.  The electrons were observed in a largeacceptance magnetic spectrometer in coincidence with protons observed in a BGO crystal ball.  Missing energy and momentum, relative momentum and angular distributions were derived and compared with a factorized two-nucleon emission model.  Soft-core correlation functions are favoured by the data. 
H Reaction at Intermediate Energies| Abstract The differential coincident pion electroproduction cross section in the 3 He(e,e 0 + ) 3 H reaction has been measured with high resolution with the threespectrometer set-up at the Mainz Microtron (MAMI) electron accelerator. 
Proposal for an Experiment Threshold| Abstract We propose to investigate the threshold p(~e,e'p)0 reaction at q 2 =\Gamma 0:05 (GeV/c) 2 as a test of the predictions of chiral dynamics, a low energy approximation to QCD.  The structure functions oe L and oe T are determined by a Rosenbluth separation, oe TL and oe TT by the \Phi dependence of the cross section and oe TL' will be measured by an out of plane measurement with polarized electrons.  In addition we want to measure the q 2 dependence of the E 0+ and L 0+ multipole at\Gamma q 2 ! 0:1 (GeV/c) 2 . 
Large Recoil Momenta in the D(e,e'p)n Reaction| Abstract The D(e,e 0 p)n reaction cross section has been measured for recoil momenta ranging from 17 MeV/c up to 950 MeV/c at momentum transfers between 600 MeV/c and 700 MeV/c.  At recoil momenta above 400 MeV/c, the gross features of the cross section are only reproduced if virtual nucleon excitations are included in the calculations. 
Gaussian Processes in Reinforcement Learning| Abstract We exploit some useful properties of Gaussian process (GP) regression models for reinforcement learning in continuous state spaces and discrete time.  We demonstrate how the GP model allows evaluation of the value function in closed form.  The resulting policy iteration algorithm is demonstrated on a simple problem with a two dimensional state space.  Further, we speculate that the intrinsic ability of GP models to characterise distributions of functions would allow the method to capture entire distributions over future values instead of merely their expectation, which has traditionally been the focus of much of reinforcement learning. 
The geometry of kernel canonical correlation analysis|
On a conjecture of Duke-Imamoglu|
