Comparison of Graph Cuts with Belief Propagation for Stereo, using Identical MRF Parameters| Abstract Recent stereo algorithms have achieved impressive results by modelling the disparity image as a Markov Random Field (MRF).  An important component of an MRF-based approach is the inference algorithm used to find the most likely setting of each node in the MRF.  Algorithms have been proposed which use Graph Cuts or Belief Propagation for inference.  These stereo algorithms differ in both the inference algorithm used and the formulation of the MRF.  It is unknown whether to attribute the responsibility for differences in performance to the MRF or the inference algorithm.  We address this through controlled experiments by comparing the Belief Propagation algorithm and the Graph Cuts algorithm on the same MRF's, which have been created for calculating stereo disparities.  We find that the labellings produced by the two algorithms are comparable.  The solutions produced by Graph Cuts have a lower energy than those produced with Belief Propagation, but this does not necessarily lead to increased performance relative to the ground-truth. 
Exploiting the Sparse Derivative Prior for Super-Resolution and Image Demosaicing| Abstract When a band-pass filter is applied to a natural image, the distribution of the output has a consistent, distinctive form across many different images, with the distribution sharply peaked at zero and relatively heavy-tailed.  This prior has been exploited for several image processing tasks.  We show how this prior on the appearance of natural images can also be used to estimate full-resolution images from incomplete data.  The unobserved image pixels are modeled with a factor graph.  The constraints in the factor graph are based on the characteristic distribution of image derivatives.  We also introduce an efficient representation for finding candidate values in the image being estimated, avoiding combinatorial explosion.  The usefulness of this approach is demonstrated by applying it to two applications: extracting a high-resolution image from a low-resolution version and estimating a full-color image from an image with one color sample per pixel. 
Efficient Graphical Models for Processing Images| Abstract Graphical models are powerful tools for processing images.  However, the large dimensionality of even local image data poses a difficulty: representing the range of possible graphical model node variables with discrete states leads to an overwhelmingly large number of states for the model, often making both exact and approximate inference computationally intractable.  We propose a representation that allows a small number of discrete states to represent the large number of possible image values at each pixel or local image patch.  Each node in the graph represents the best regression function, chosen from a set of candidate functions, for estimating the unobserved image pixels from the observed samples.  This permits a small number of discrete states to summarize the range of possible image values at each point in the image.  Belief propagation is then used to find the best regressor to use at each point.  To demonstrate the usefulness of this technique, we apply it to two problems: super-resolution and color demosaicing.  In both cases, we find our method compares well against other techniques for these problems. 
Recovering Intrinsic Images from a Single Image| 2002 massachusetts institute of technology, cambridge, ma 02139 usa --- www. ai. mit. edu massachusetts institute of technology --
