Binary Tuning is Optimal for Neural Rate Coding with High Temporal Resolution| Abstract Here we derive optimal gain functions for minimum mean square reconstruction from neural rate responses subjected to Poisson noise.  The shape of these functions strongly depends on the length # of the time window within which spikes are counted in order to estimate the underlying firing rate.  A phase transition towards pure binary encoding occurs if the maximum mean spike count becomes smaller than approximately three provided the minimum firing rate is zero.  For a particular function class, we were able to prove the existence of a second-order phase transition analytically.  The critical decoding time window length obtained from the analytical derivation is in precise agreement with the numerical results.  We conclude that under most circumstances relevant to information processing in the brain, rate coding can be better ascribed to a binary (low-entropy) code than to the other extreme of rich analog coding.  1 Optimal neuronal gain functions for short decoding time windows The use of action potentials (spikes) as a means of communication is the striking feature of neurons in the central nervous system.  Since the discovery by Adrian [1] that action potentials are generated by sensory neurons with a frequency that is substantially determined by the stimulus, the idea of rate coding has become a prevalent paradigm in neuroscience [2].  In particular, today the coding properties of many neurons from various areas in the cortex have been characterized by tuning curves, which describe the average firing rate response as a function of certain stimulus parameters.  This way of description is closely related to the idea of analog coding, which constitutes the basis for many neural network models.  Reliable inference from the observed number of spikes about the underlying firing rate of a neuronal response, however, requires a sufficiently long time interval, while integration times of neurons in vivo [3] as well as reaction times of humans or animals when performing classification tasks [4, 5] are known to be rather short.  Therefore, it is important to understand, how neural rate coding is affected by a limited time window available for decoding.  While rate codes are usually characterized by tuning functions relating the intensity of the
Spike-frequency adaptation: Phenomenological model and experimental tests| Abstract Spike-frequency adaptation is a common feature of neural dynamics.  Here we present a low-dimensional phenomenological model whose parameters can be easily determined from experimental data.  We test the model on intracellular recordings from auditory receptor neurons of locusts and demonstrate that the temporal variation of discharge rate is predicted with high accuracy.  We relate the model to biophysical descriptions of adaptation in conductance-based models and analyze its implications for neural computation. 
Brief Pauses as Signals for Depressing Synapses,|
Dynamics of population rate codes in ensembles of neocortical neurons|
Rapid signaling by variance in ensembles of neocortical neurons,|
Optimal neural rate coding leads to bimodal firing rate distributions|
Optimal Short-Term Population Coding: When Fisher Information Fails|
Population coding with unreliable spikes|
