Medial Temporal and Prefrontal Contributions to Working Memory Tasks With Novel and Familiar Stimuli| ABSTRACT: Lesions of parahippocampal structures impair performance of delayed matching tasks in nonhuman primates, suggesting a role for these structures in the maintenance of items in working memory and short-term stimulus matching.  However, most human functional imaging studies have not shown medial temporal activation during working memory tasks and have primarily focused on functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signal intensity changes in the prefrontal and posterior parietal cortex.  The goal of this study was to test the hypothesis that the difference between the human and nonhuman primate data results from the use of highly familiar stimuli in human working memory studies and trial-unique stimuli in nonhuman primate studies.  We used fMRI to examine prefrontal and temporal lobe activation during performance of a working memory (two-back) task, using blocks of novel and highly familiar complex pictures.  Performance of the working memory task with novel complex pictures resulted in greater signal change within medial temporal lobe structures than performance of the task with familiar complex pictures.  In contrast, the working memory task with highly familiar stimuli resulted in greater prefrontal activation.  These results are consistent without hypothesis that the medial temporal lobe is recruited for the shortterm maintenance of information that has no prior representation in the brain, whereas the prefrontal cortex is important for monitoring familiar stimuli that have a high degree of interference.  A second set of tasks examined stimulus matching.  Subjects performed a target-matching task, during which they identified a single target presented in blocks of novel or familiar stimuli.  The results provide evidence of hippocampal and parahippocampal recruitment in the target-matching task with familiar stimuli.  These results are consistent with prior animal studies and suggest that prefrontal regions may be important for the monitoring and matching of familiar stimuli which have a high potential for interference, whereas medial temporal regions may become proportionally more important for matching and maintenance of novel stimuli. 
Temporal Difference Learning in Continuous Time and Space| Abstract A continuous-time, continuous-state version of the temporal difference (TD) algorithm is derived in order to facilitate the application of reinforcement learning to real-world control tasks and neurobiological modeling.  An optimal nonlinear feedback control lawwas also derived using the derivatives of the value function.  The performance of the algorithms was tested in a task of swinging up a pendulum with limited torque.  Both the \critic" that specifies the paths to the upright position and the \actor" that works as a nonlinear feedback controller were successfully implemented by radial basis function (RBF) networks. 
LETTER Communicated by William Skaggs Changes in GABA B Modulation During a Theta Cycle May Be Analogous to the Fall of Temperature During Annealing| Changes in GABA B modulation may underlie experimentally observed changes in the strength of synaptic transmission at different phases of the theta rhythm (Wyble, Linster, & Hasselmo, 1997).  Analysis demonstrates that these changes improve sequence disambiguation by a neural network model of CA3.  We show that in the framework of Hopfield and Tank (1985), changes in GABA B suppression correspond to changes in the effective temperature and the relative energy of data terms and constraints of an analog network.  These results suggest that phasic changes in the activity of inhibitory interneurons during a theta cycle mayproduce dynamics that resemble annealing.  These dynamics may underlie a role for the theta cycle in improving sequence retrieval for spatial navigation. 
Original Article From Biophysics to Behavior Catacomb2 and the Design of Biologically-Plausible Models for Spatial Navigation|
EM Optimization of Latent-Variable Density Models| Abstract There is currently considerable interest in developing general nonlinear density models based on latent, or hidden, variables.  Such models have the ability to discover the presence of a relatively small number of underlying `causes' which, acting in combination, give rise to the apparent complexity of the observed data set.  Unfortunately, to train such models generally requires large computational effort.  In this paper we introduce a novel latent variable algorithm which retains the general non-linear capabilities of previous models but which uses a training procedure based on the EM algorithm.  We demonstrate the performance of the model on a toy problem and on data from flow diagnostics for a multi-phase oil pipeline. 
A New Learning Algorithm for Blind Signal Separation| Abstract A new on-line learning algorithm which minimizes a statistical dependency among outputs is derived for blind separation of mixed signals.  The dependency is measured by the average mutual information (MI) of the outputs.  The source signals and the mixing matrix are unknown except for the number of the sources.  The Gram-Charlier expansion instead of the Edgeworth expansion is used in evaluating the MI.  The natural gradient approach is used to minimize the MI.  A novel activation function is proposed for the on-line learning algorithm which has an equivariant property and is easily implemented on a neural network like model.  The validity of the new learning algorithm is verified by computer simulations. 
Ionic Mechanisms in the Generation of Subthreshold Oscillations and Action Potential Clustering in Entorhinal Layer II Stellate Neurons| ABSTRACT: A multicompartmental biophysical model of entorhinal cortex layer II stellate cells was developed to analyze the ionic basis of physiological properties, such as subthreshold membrane potential oscillations, action potential clustering, and the medium afterhyperpolarization.  In particular, the simulation illustrates the interaction of the persistent sodium current (I NaP ) and the hyperpolarization activated inward current (I h )inthe generation of subthreshold membrane potential oscillations.  The potential role of I h in contributing to the medium hyperpolarization (mAHP) and rebound spiking was studied.  The role of I h and the slow calcium-activated potassium current I K(AHP) in action potential clustering was also studied.  Representations of I h and I NaP were developed with parameters based on voltage-clamp data from whole-cell patch and single channel recordings of stellate cells (Dickson et al. ,
Free recall and recognition in a network model of the hippocampus: simulating effects of scopolamine on human memory function| Abstract Free recall and recognition are simulated in a network model of the hippocampal formation, incorporating simplified simulations of neurons, synaptic connections, and the effects of acetylcholine.  Simulations focus on modeling the effects of the acetylcholine receptor blocker scopolamine on human memory.  Systemic administration of scopolamine is modeled by blockade of the cellular effects of acetylcholine in the model, resulting in memory impairments replicating data from studies on human subjects.  This blockade of cholinergic effects impairs the encoding of new input patterns (as measured by delayed free recall), but does not impair the delayed free recall of input patterns learned before the blockade.  The impairment is selective to the free recall but not the recognition of items encoded under the influence of scopolamine.  In the model, scopolamine blocks strengthening of recurrent connections in region CA3 to form attractor states for new items (encoding impaired) but allows recurrent excitation to drive the network into previously stored attractor states (retrieval spared).  Neuron populations representing items (individual words) have weaker recurrent connections than neuron populations representing experimental context.  When scopolamine further weakens the strength of recurrent connections it selectively prevents the subsequent reactivation of item attractor states by context input (impaired free recall) without impairing the subsequent reactivation of context attractor states by item input (spared recognition).  This asymmetry in the strength of attractor states also allows simulation of the list-strength effect for free recall but not recognition.  Simulation of a paired associate learning paradigm predicts that scopolamine should greatly enhance proactive interference due to retrieval of previously encoded associations during storage of new associations. 
Modeling Saccadic Targeting in Visual Search| Abstract Visual cognition depends critically on the ability to make rapid eye movements known as saccades that orient the fovea over targets of interest in a visual scene.  Saccades are known to be ballistic: the pattern of muscle activation for foveating a prespecified target location is computed prior to the movement and visual feedback is precluded.  Despite these distinctive properties, there has been no general model of the saccadic targeting strategy employed by the human visual system during visual search in natural scenes.  This paper proposes a model for saccadic targeting that uses iconic scene representations derived from oriented spatial filters at multiple scales.  Visual search proceeds in a coarse-to-fine fashion with the largest scale filter responses being compared first.  The model was empirically tested by comparing its performance with actual eye movement data from human subjects in a natural visual search task; preliminary results indicate substantial agreement between eye movements predicted by the model and those recorded from human subjects. 
TITLE: Encoding and retrieval in the CA3 region of the hippocampus: a model of theta phase separation AUTHORS:| Abstract Past research (Hasselmo et al.  2002) suggests that some fundamental tasks are better accomplished if memories are encoded and recovered during different parts of the theta cycle.  A model of the CA3 subfield of the hippocampus is presented, using biophysical representations of the major cell types including pyramidal cells and two types of interneurons.  Inputs to the network come from the septum and the entorhinal cortex (directly and via the dentate gyrus).  A mechanism for parsing the theta rhythm into two epochs is proposed and simulated: in the first half, the strong, proximal input from the dentate to a subset of CA3 pyramidal cells and coincident, direct input from the entorhinal cortex to other pyramidal cells creates an environment for strengthening synapses between cells, thus encoding information.  During the second half of theta, cueing signals from the entorhinal cortex, via the dentate, activate previously strengthened synapses, retrieving memories.  Slow inhibitory neurons (O-LM cells) play a role in the disambiguation during retrieval.  We compare and contrast our computational results with existing experimental data and other contemporary models. 
Clustering data through an analogy to the Potts model| Abstract A new approach for clustering is proposed.  This method is based on an analogy to a physical model; the ferromagnetic Potts model at thermal equilibrium is used as an analog computer for this hard optimization problem.  We do not assume any structure of the underlying distribution of the data.  Phase space of the Potts model is divided into three regions; ferromagnetic, super-paramagnetic and paramagnetic phases.  The region of interest is that corresponding to the super-paramagnetic one, where domains of aligned spins appear.  The range of temperatures where these structures are stable is indicated by a non-vanishing magnetic susceptibility.  We use a very efficient Monte Carlo algorithm to measure the susceptibility and the spin spin correlation function.  The values of the spin spin correlation function, at the super-paramagnetic phase, serve to identify the partition of the data points into clusters.  Many natural phenomena can be viewed as optimization processes, and the drive to understand and analyze them yielded powerful mathematical methods.  Thus when wishing to solve a hard optimization problem, it may be advantageous to apply these methods through a physical analogy.  Indeed, recently techniques from statistical physics have been adapted for solving hard optimization problems (see e. g.  Yuille and Kosowsky, 1994).  In this work we formulate the problem of clustering in terms of a ferromagnetic Potts spin model.  Using the Monte Carlo method we estimate physical quantities such as the spin spin correlation function and the susceptibility, and deduce from them the number of clusters and cluster sizes.  Cluster analysis is an important technique in exploratory data analysis and is applied in a variety of engineering and scientific disciplines.  The problem of partitional clustering can be formally stated as follows.  With every one of i = 1; 2; : : :N patterns represented as a point ~x i in a d-dimensional metric space, determine the partition of these N points into M groups, called clusters, such that points in a cluster are more similar to each other than to points in different clusters.  The value of M also has to be determined.  The two main approaches to partitional clustering are called parametric and nonparametric.  In parametric approaches some knowledge of the clusters' structure is assumed (e. g.  each cluster can be represented by a center and a spread around it).  This assumption is incorporated in a global criterion.  The goal is to assign the data points so that the criterion is minimized.  A typical example is variance minimization (Rose, Gurewitz, and Fox, 1993).  On the other hand, in non-parametric approaches a local criterion is used to build clusters by utilizing local structure of the data.  For example, clusters can be formed by identifying high-density regions in the data space or by assigning a point and its K-nearest neighbors to the same cluster.  In recent years many parametric partitional clustering algorithms rooted in statistical physics were presented (see e. g.  Buhmann and Kuhnel , 1993).  In the present work we use methods of statistical physics in non-parametric clustering.  Our aim is to use a physical problem as an analog to the clustering problem.  The notion of clusters comes very naturally in Potts spin models (Wang and Swendsen, 1990) where clusters are closely related to ordered regions of spins.  We place a Potts spin variable s i at each point ~x i (that represents one of the patterns), and introduce a short range ferromagnetic interaction J ij between pairs of spins, whose strength decreases as the inter-spin distance k~x i \Gamma ~x j k increases.  The system is governed by the Hamiltonian (energy function) H = \Gamma X !i;j? J ij ffi s i ;s j s i = 1 : : : q ; (1) where the notation ! i; j ? stands for neighboring points i and j in a sense that is defined later.  Then we study the ordering properties of this inhomogeneous Potts model.  As a concrete example, place a Potts spin at each of the data points of fig. 
Correspondence to be sent to:| Acetylcholine and norepinephrine have a number of effects at the cellular level in the piriform cortex.  Acetylcholine causes a depolarization of the membrane potential of pyramidal cells and interneurons, and suppresses the action potential frequency accommodation of pyramidal cells.  Acetylcholine also has strong effects on synaptic transmission, suppressing both excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission.  At the same time as it suppresses synaptic transmission, acetylcholine enhances synaptic modification, as demonstrated by experiments showing enhancement of long-term potentiation.  Norepinephrine has similar effects.  In this review, we discuss some of these different cellular effects and provide functional proposals for these individual effects in the context of the putative associative memory function of this structure. 
Enhanced cholinergic suppression of previously strengthened synapses enables the formation of self-organized representations in olfactory cortex| Abstract Computational modeling assists in analyzing the specific functional role of the cellular effects of acetylcholine within cortical structures. 
Theta Rhythmic Stimulation of Stratum Lacunosum-Moleculare in Rat Hippocampus Contributes to Associative LTP at a Phase Offset in Stratum Radiatum| Theta rhythmic stimulation of stratum lacunosum-moleculare in rat hippocampus contributes to associative LTP at a phase offset in stratum radiatum. 
2003 Special issue Modeling goal-directed spatial navigation in the rat based on physiological data from the hippocampal formation| Abstract We investigated the importance of hippocampal theta oscillations and the significance of phase differences of theta modulation in the cortical regions that are involved in goal-directed spatial navigation.  Our models used representations of entorhinal cortex layer III (ECIII), hippocampus and prefrontal cortex (PFC) to guide movements of a virtual rat in a virtual environment.  The model encoded representations of the environment through long-term potentiation of excitatory recurrent connections between sequentially spiking place cells in ECIII and CA3.  This encoding required buffering of place cell activity, which was achieved by a short-term memory (STM) in EC that was regulated by theta modulation and allowed synchronized reactivation with encoding phases in ECIII and CA3.  Inhibition at a specific theta phase deactivated the oldest item in the buffer when new input was presented to a full STM buffer.  A 1808 phase difference separated retrieval and encoding in ECIII and CA3, which enabled us to simulate data on theta phase precession of place cells.  Retrieval of known paths was elicited in ECIII by input at the retrieval phase from PFC working memory for goal location, requiring strict theta phase relationships with PFC.  Known locations adjacent to the virtual rat were retrieved in CA3.  Together, input from ECIII and CA3 activated predictive spiking in cells in CA1 for the next desired place on a shortest path to a goal.  Consistent with data, place cell activity in CA1 and CA3 showed smaller place fields than in ECIII. 
A model for experience-dependent changes in the responses of inferotemporal neurons| IT cortex neurons. 
Analysis of Theta Power in Hippocampal EEG During Bar Pressing and Running Behavior in Rats During Distinct Behavioral Contexts| ABSTRACT: These experiments examine changes in theta power as measured by wavelet analysis in five rats performing a conditional visual discrimination task and a simple running task.  In the conditional task, rats were trained to press one lever to initiate a trial and then to press one of two choice levers, each corresponding to one of two cue lights.  Analysis of theta power in this operant task found a large decrease in theta power during the choice bar presses, in contrast to the increase in theta power during trial initiation bar presses.  This result seems to stand counter to results that propose consistent relationships between motor actions and theta power (Vanderwolf, EEG Clin Neurophys 26:407--418, 1969), as well as studies suggesting that the lack of bar-press theta is the result of habituation.  However, these data can be seen as being in broad agreement with the theoretical framework of sensorimotor integration (Bland and Oddie, Behav Brain Res 127:119--136, 2001).  To investigate further the power of theta observed at the termination of type 1 motor activity, a runway task was devised in which rats ran back and forth between two ends of a linear track, one of which was always rewarded and the other never rewarded.  Theta power decreased sharply 240 ms before movement ended at the rewarded end, but not at the unrewarded end of the track.  These data extend the current scope of theory in demonstrating that hippocampal theta activity can end abruptly 200 -- 400 ms prior to the end of type 1 motor movement when approaching the end of a motor sequence.  2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc. 
Encoding and Retrieval of Episodic Memories: Role of Cholinergic and GABAergic Modulation in the Hippocampus| ABSTRACT: This research focuses on linking episodic memory function to the cellular physiology of hippocampal neurons, with a particular emphasis on modulatory effects at cholinergic and gg-aminobutyric acid B receptors.  Drugs which block acetylcholine receptors (e. g. , scopolamine) have been shown to impair encoding of new information in humans, nonhuman primates, and rodents.  Extensive data have been gathered about the cellular effects of acetylcholine in the hippocampus.  In this research, models of individual hippocampal subregions have been utilized to understand the significance of particular features of modulation, and these hippocampal subregions have been combined in a network simulation which can replicate the selective encoding impairment produced by scopolamine in human subjects.  r 1997 Wiley-Liss, Inc. 
Bridging the Gap: Integrating Cellular and Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Studies of the Hippocampus| studies.  Despite these methodological and species-related differences, the neurophysiological studies offer insight into many of the questions raised by recent neuroimaging studies.  For instance, there is physiological evidence that suggests that the hippocampal memory system is functionally heterogeneous, which may explain some of the discrepancies in the location and extent of activation reported by different imaging studies of the medial temporal lobe.  In addition, we describe recent computational models of the hippocampus which may be useful for bridging the gap between neurophysiological and neuroimaging data.  Hippocampus 1999;
Acetylcholine in Cortical Inference| Abstract Acetylcholine (ACh) plays an important role in a wide variety of cognitive tasks, such as perception, selective attention, associative learning, and memory.  Extensive experimental and theoretical work in tasks involving learning and memory has suggested that ACh reports on unfamiliarity and controls plasticity and effective network connectivity.  Based on these computational and mechanistic insights, we develop a theory of cholinergic modulation in perceptual inference.  We propose that ACh levels reflect the uncertainty associated with top-down information, and have the effect of modulating the interaction between top-down and bottom-up processing in determining the appropriate neural representations for inputs.  We illustrate our proposal by means of an hierarchical hidden Markov model, showing that cholinergic modulation of contextual information leads to appropriate perceptual inference. 
Encoding and retrieval in the CA3 region of the hippocampus: a model of theta phase separation|
Properties and role of I h in the pacing of subthreshold oscillation in entorhinal cortex layer II neurons|
The role of expression and identity in the face-selective responses of neurons in the temporal visual cortex of the monkey|
A Proposed Function for Hippocampal Theta Rhythm: Separate Phases of Encoding and Retrieval Enhance Reversal of Prior Learning|
Timing of consecutive traveling pulses in a model of entorhinal cortex|
Phase relationship of ltp induction and behavior to theta rhythm in the rat hippocampus|
Selective loss of cholinergic neurons projecting to the olfactory system increases perceptual generalization between similar, but not dissimilar, odorants|
Cholinergic Modulation May Enhance Cortical Associative Memory Function|
Modulation of inhibitory synaptic potentials in the piriform cortex|
Modulation of associative memory function in a biophysical simulation of rat piriform cortex|
Muscarinic cholinergic neuromodulation reduces proactive interference between stored odor memories during associative learning in rats|
Cholinergic modulation of activitydependent synaptic plasticity in rat piriform cortex,|
Cholinergic agonist carbachol enables associative long-term potentiation in piriform cortex slices|
Contribution of the cholinergic basal forebrain to proactive interference from stored odor memories during associative learning in rats|
Electrical stimulation of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of broca modulates population EPSPs in piriform cortex|
Blockade of central cholinergic receptors impairs new learning and increases proactive interference in a word paired-associate memory task|
High acetylcholine levels set circuit dynamics for attention and encoding and low acetylcholine levels set dynamics for consolidation|
Scopolamine impairs human recognition memory: Data and modeling|
Interactions between olfactory bulb and olfactory cortex in a neural model of odor processing|
Object-centered encoding by face-selective neurons in the cortex in the superior temporal sulcus of the monkey|
NMDA-dependent modulation of CA1 local circuit inibition,|
Suppression of synaptic transmission may allow combination of associative feedback and self-organizing feedforward connections in the neocortex,|
Runaway synaptic modification in models of cortex: implications for Alzheimer's disease,|
Functional magnetic resonance imaging and computational modeling: An integrated study of hippocampal function,|
Linking LTP to network function: A simulation of episodic memory in the hippocampal formation|
Acetylcholine and learning in a cortical associative memory,|
Modeling the piriform cortex,|
Bursting and oscillations in a biophysical model of hippocampal region CA3: Implications for associative memory and epileptiform activity,|
Neuromodulation, theta rhythm and rat spatial navigation|
Self-sustained memory states in a simple model with excitatory and inhibitory neurons|
Physiological constraints on models of behavior|
Neuromodulation and the functional dynamics of piriform cortex|
Acetylcholine and associative memory in the pyriform cortex Mol| Neurobiol. 
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems:|
Selective suppression of intrinsic but not afferent fiber synaptic transmission by baclofen in the piriform (olfactory) cortex|
GABA B modulation improves sequence disambiguation in computational models of hippocampal region CA3|
A model of human memory based on the cellular physiology of the hippocampal formation|
b) From spike frequency to free recall: How neural circuits perform encoding and retrieval|
Graded persistent activity in entorhinal cortex neurons|
Nalwa V 1989 The effect of learning on the face selective responses of neurons in the cortex in the superior temproal sulcus of the monkey Exp| Brain Res. 
Nalwa V 1989b Object-centered encoding by face-selective neurons in the cortex in the superior temporal sulcus of the monkey Exp| Brain Res. 
The representation and storage of visual information in the temporal lobe|
Neuromodulation: acetylcholine and memory consolidation|
From biophysics to behavior: Catacomb2 and the design of biological plausible models for spatial navigation|
Neural models of memory|
Septal modulation of hippocampal activity: What is the function of the theta rhythm?|
