Toward Optimal Active Learning through Sampling Estimation of Error Reduction| Abstract This paper presents an active learning method that directly optimizes expected future error.  This is in contrast to many other popular techniques that instead aim to reduce version space size.  These other methods are popular because for many learning models, closed form calculation of the expected future error is intractable.  Our approach is made feasible by taking a sampling approach to estimating the expected reduction in error due to the labeling of a query.  In experimental results on two real-world data sets we reach high accuracy very quickly, sometimes with four times fewer labeled examples than competing methods. 
Spoken Dialogue Management Using Probabilistic Reasoning| ################# 21810 -56 ############# # #!#"##
Planning under Uncertainty for Reliable Health Care Robotics| Abstract.  We describe a mobile robot system, designed to assist residents of an retirement facility.  This system is being developed to respond to an aging population and a predicted shortage of nursing professionals.  In this paper, we discuss the task of finding and escorting people from place to place in the facility, a task containing uncertainty throughout the problem.  Planning algorithms that model uncertainty well such as Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes (POMDPs) do not scale tractably to real world problems such as the health care domain.  We demonstrate an algorithm for representing real world POMDP problems compactly, which allows us to find good policies in reasonable amounts of time.  We show that our algorithm is able to find moving people in close to optimal time, where the optimal policy starts with knowledge of the person's location. 
MINERVA: A Second-Generation Museum Tour-Guide Robot| Abstract This paper describes an interactive tour-guide robot, which was successfully exhibited in a Smithsonian museum.  During its two weeks of operation, the robot interacted with thousands of people, traversing more than 44 km at speeds of up to 163 cm/sec.  Our approach specifically addresses issues such as safe navigation in unmodified and dynamic environments, and short-term human-robot interaction.  It uses learning pervasively at all levels of the software architecture. 
Exponential Family PCA for Belief Compression in POMDPs| Abstract Standard value function approaches to finding policies for Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes (POMDPs) are intractable for large models.  This intractability of these algorithms is due to a great extent to their generating an optimal policy over the entire belief space.  However, in real POMDP problems most belief states are highly unlikely, and there is a highly structured, low-dimensional manifold of plausible beliefs embedded in the high-dimensional belief space.  We introduce a new method for solving large-scale POMDPs by taking advantage of belief space sparsity.  We reduce the dimensionality of the belief space by exponential family Principal Components Analysis [1], which allows us to turn the sparse, highdimensional belief space into a compact, low-dimensional representation in terms of learned features of the belief state.  We then plan directly on the low-dimensional belief features.  By planning in a low dimensional space, we can find policies for POMDPs that are orders of magnitude larger than can be handled by conventional techniques.  We demonstrate the use of this algorithm on a synthetic problem and also on a mobile robot navigation task. 
Learning to Rendezvous during Multi-agent Exploration ration| Abstract.  We consider the problem of rendezvous between two robots collaborating in learning the layout of an unknown environment.  That is, how can two autonomous exploring agents that cannot communicate with one another over long distances meet if they start exploring at different locations in an unknown environment.  The intended application is collaborative map exploration.  Ours is the first work to formalize the characteristics of the rendezvous problem, and we approach it by proposing several alternative algorithms that the robots could use in attempting to rendezvous quickly while continuing to explore.  The algorithms are based on the assumption that potential rendezvous locations, referred to as landmarks, can be determined by the robots as they explore; these locations are based on a distinctiveness measure computed with an arbitrary sensor.  We consider the performance of our proposed algorithms analytically with respect to both expected- and worst-case behaviour.  We then examine their behaviour under a wider set of conditions in simulation. 
Experiences with a Mobile Robotic Guide for the Elderly| Abstract This paper describes an implemented robot system, which relies heavily on probabilistic AI techniques for acting under uncertainty.  The robot Pearl
Finding Approximate POMDP solutions Through Belief Compression| Abstract Standard value function approaches to finding policies for Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes (POMDPs) are generally considered to be intractable for large models.  The intractability of these algorithms is to a large extent a consequence of computing an exact, optimal policy over the entire belief space.  However, in real-world POMDP problems, computing the optimal policy for the full belief space is often unnecessary for good control even for problems with complicated policy classes.  The beliefs experienced by the controller often lie near a structured, low-dimensional subspace embedded in the high-dimensional belief space.  Finding a good approximation to the optimal value function for only this subspace can be much easier than computing the full value function.  We introduce a new method for solving large-scale POMDPs by reducing the dimensionality of the belief space.  We use Exponential family Principal Components Analysis (Collins, Dasgupta, & Schapire, 2002) to represent sparse, high-dimensional belief spaces using small sets of learned features of the belief state.  We then plan only in terms of the low-dimensional belief features.  By planning in this low-dimensional space, we can find policies for POMDP models that are orders of magnitude larger than models that can be handled by conventional techniques.  We demonstrate the use of this algorithm on a synthetic problem and on mobile robot navigation tasks. 
Online Control Policy Optimization for Minimizing Map Uncertainty during Exploration| Abstract--- Tremendous progress has been made recently in simultaneous localization and mapping of unknown environments.  Using sensor and odometry data from an exploring mobile robot, it has become much easier to build high-quality globally consistent maps of many large, real-world environments.  To date, however, relatively little attention has been paid to the controllers used to build these maps.  Existing exploration strategies usually attempt to cover the largest amount of unknown space as quickly as possible.  Few strategies exist for building the most reliable map possible, but the particular control strategy can have a substantial impact on the quality of the resulting map.  In this paper, we devise a control algorithm for exploring unknown space that explicitly tries to build as large a map as possible while maintaining as accurate a map as possible.  We make use of a parameterized class of spiral trajectory policies, choosing a new parameter setting at every time step to maximize the expected reward of the policy.  We do this in the context of building a visual map of an unknown environment, and show that our strategy leads to a higher accuracy map faster than other candidate controllers, including any single choice in our policy class. 
Perspectives on Standardization in Mobile Robot Programming : The Carnegie Mellon Navigation (CARMEN) Toolkit| Abstract--- In this paper we describe our open-source robot control software, the Carnegie Mellon Navigation (CARMEN) Toolkit.  The ultimate goals of CARMEN are to lower the barrier to implementing new algorithms on real and simulated robots and to facilitate sharing of research and algorithms between different institutions.  In order for CARMEN to be as inclusive of various research approaches as possible, we have chosen not to adopt strict software standards, but to instead focus on good design practices.  This paper will outline the lessons we have learned in developing these practices. 
Surface Sensing and Classification for Efficient Mobile Robot Navigation| Abstract Mobile robot navigation and localization is frequently aided by, or even dependent upon, a good estimate of the rate of dead-reckoning error accumulation.  Sensor data can be used for position estimation, but this often involves overhead in acquiring and processing the data.  By sensing and then classifying the surface type, an estimate of the rate of error accumulation for dead-reckoning allows us to estimate accurately how often localization, including sensor data acquisition, must be performed.  In the experiments we describe, a boom-mounted microphone is tapped on different floor materials, much as a blind man might tap his cane.  The acoustic signature arising from the contact is then used to classify the floor type by comparing a windowed power spectrum of the acoustic signature with one of a family of prototypical signatures generated statistically from the same material.  The technique is low-cost, involves limited computational expense, and performs very well. 
Towards robotic assistants in nursing homes: Challenges and results| Abstract This paper describes a mobile robotic assistant, developed to assist elderly individuals with mild cognitive and physical impairments, as well as support nurses in their daily activities.  We present three software modules relevant to ensure successful human--robot interaction: an automated reminder system; a people tracking and detection system; and finally a high-level robot controller that performs planning under uncertainty by incorporating knowledge from low-level modules, and selecting appropriate courses of actions.  During the course of experiments conducted in an assisted living facility, the robot successfully demonstrated that it could autonomously provide reminders and guidance for elderly residents
MINERVA: A Tour-Guide Robot that Learns|
Coastal Navigation: Mobile Robot Navigation with Uncertainty in Dynamic Environments|
Coastal navigation -- robot motion with uncertainty|
GRACE: An Autonomous Robot for the AAAI Robot Challenge|
