NEURAL CORRELATES OF SENSATION AND PERFORMANCE AS REVEALED BY NEUROIMAGING STUDIES| Abstract We present and discuss evidence on how neurophysiological measures of brain activation supplied by various neuroimaging methods relate to stimulus intensity, on the one hand, and subjective experience, in particular, sensory magnitudes and measures of performance (like speed or accuracy of response), on the other.  We argue that in modern neurophysiology, the functional relation between the stimulus intensity and the neural response is largely neglected in favor of research on higher-order, cognitive processing.  In turn, physiological psychology has yet little to say about the relation between neural activity and the sensory magnitude.  Moreover, most current work in neuroscience lacks a parametric examination along the entire line stimulus-neural activity-sensation.  A deeper insight into the nature of the functional relationship between the intensity of sensation and the magnitude of nervous activity in the brain requires an interdisciplinary effort made by neurophysiology, physiological psychology and sensory psychophysics.  The issue of how neural events representing the world around us are coupled to subjective experience has a long history in philosophy, biology, and psychology.  In his seminal
FEATURE INTEGRATION IN CHILDREN WITH EARLY BRAIN DAMAGE: MEDICAL PSYCHOPHYSICS AND BRAIN IMAGING| Abstract We psychophysically examine feature integration in patients with brain damage of very early origin.  Paticipants were patients (aged 14-16 yrs) with mild and severe periventricular leikomalacia (PVL) over the parieto-occipital area born at 27-33 weeks of gestation and two groups of healthy controls (preterms without PVL and fullterms) matched for age, gender and parental occupational status.  They were shown point-light biological motion.  Half the stimuli represented an 11-dot point-light walker embedded in a 44-dot simultaneous mask, while the other half were 55-dot masks.  In a confidencerating procedure, participants judged the presence of a walker.  ROC-analysis indicates higher susceptibility of patient's visual system to camouflage of a point-light figure.  Sensitivity in fullterm controls as well as in preterms without PVL was equally high, and significantly better than detection by patients.  The findings indicate that specific visuoperceptual deficits for preterms with bilateral parieto-occipital PVL can be revealed in middle childhood.  This points to some restrictions in the spontaneous compensatory potential of the brain with early bilateral periventricular lesions.  Although recent theoretical framework and experimental findings help to recognize a great compensatory potential of the human developing brain, the mechanisms of the spontaneous compensatory plasticity and, in particular, limitations on it are still largely unknown.  This is especially true for the case when damage of the functionally relevant brain regions are prenatal or of very early origin, and symmetrical, i. e.  equally involve both brain hemispheres (Kr geloh-Mann, Toft, Lunding, et al. , 1999).  Here we tested (i) whether patients born preterm with bilateral periventricular lesions, namely, with periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) over the parieto-occipital area, exhibit specific pattern of visuo-perceptual deficits, and (ii) whether these deficiencies can be revealed in middle childhood.  Clinical diagnostic procedures routinely applied to detect the visuo-perceptual deficits are confined to either low-level visual tasks (e. g. , visual acuity measurements) or standard psychometric tests.  The disadvantage of such approaches is that both low-level visual performance and the results of cognitive tests fail to account for difficulties on "intermediate" visual-perceptual tasks.  Apparently, preterm children have difficulties in building coherent Gestalt-like representations, although they demonstrate unimpaired ability to detect even very small details (Jacobson, Lundin, Flodmark, & Ellstr m, 1998).  For testing Gestalt-formation in preterm children, we suggest using impoverished point-light biological motion stimuli.  Although in such a display only a few moving dots are visible, by the age of 5 years children without a history of neurological disorders reach a ceiling level for recognition of a noncamouflaged point-light figures (Pavlova, Kr geloh-Mann, Sokolov, & Birbaumer, 2001).  On the other hand, deficits in higher cognitive functions affects interpretation of point-light displays very little: Adolescents with impairments in high-level symbolic processing need only very brief exposure to recognize human figures in point-light displays (Moore, Hobson, & Anderson, 1995).  In the present study, by using a simultaneous masking paradigm, we psychophysically examined the susceptibility of the visual system to distortions caused by camouflaging biological motion.  The mature visual system robustly tolerate such distortions (e. g. , Neri, Morrone, & Burr, 1998; Pavlova & Sokolov, 2000).  We hypothesize that if preterms with parieto-occipital PVL have specific perceptual deficits, their sensitivity to a point-light walker embedded in a moving-dot mask would be lower than in fullterm controls.  Moreover, if these deficits relate to the brain damage, the detection by preterms with PVL would be significantly worse than by preterms without brain lesions.  We also examined whether even mild periventricular bilateral damage of the functionally relevant brain regions (mild parietooccipital PVL) lead to a reduction of sensitivity.  Method Participants.  Participants were 13 patients (aged 14-16 yrs) born preterm at 27-33 weeks of gestation.  On the basis of analysis of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), they were assigned to the groups with mild bilateral PVL (n = 8) and with severe PVL over the parieto-occipital region (n = 5).  Fullterms and preterms without PVL (8 in each group) matched the patients for age, gender, and parental occupational status served as a control.  From all participants, T2weighted images (35 axial slices, TR = 4800 ms, TE = 85 ms, 4mm slice thickness) were obtained using a Siemens Vision scanner (see Figure 1).  For quantification of the damage extent, the volume of gliosis and the dilatation of the ventricles were taken into account.  All participants have normal or corrected-to-normal vision.  All participants attended the mainstream school, except three preterms with severe PVL who attended a special school due to considerable motor disorders.  The study complied with the requirements of local ethical committee.  Stimuli.  Two types of stimuli were used.  One of them represented an 11-dot point-light walker facing right and moving with no net translation.  A gait cycle was accomplished in 40 frames with frame duration of 36 ms.  This resulted in walking speed of about 42 complete cycles per minute.  A walker subtended a visual angle of 4. 0 in height and 2. 8 in width at the most extended point of a gait cycle.  Forty-four moving dots that corresponded to spatially scrambled points on the joints of a walker were added as a mask.  Thus, the mask shared the same parameters of motion as the canonical point-light figure.  The number of moving dots in
Auditory Feedback of Human EEG for Direct Brain-Computer Communication| ABSTRACT The Thought-Translation-Device (TTD) is a Brain-ComputerInterface (BCI) that enables completely paralyzed patients to communicate by the use of their brain signals only.  Selfregulation of brain signals (e. g.  the slow cortical potentials) is achieved by a feedback training.  Visual impairment of these patients asks for an auditory feedback mode.  The TTD can be entirely operated by combined listening and mental activity.  It provides auditory feedback of brain signals which can operate a verbal spelling interface.  The extension POSER allows for sonified orchestral real-time feedback of multiple EEG parameters for the training of self-regulation.  The properties of the system are reported and the results of some studies and experiments with auditory feedback are presented. 
Methods Towards Invasive Human Brain Computer Interfaces| Abstract During the last ten years there has been growing interest in the development of Brain Computer Interfaces (BCIs).  The field has mainly been driven by the needs of completely paralyzed patients to communicate.  With a few exceptions, most human BCIs are based on extracranial electroencephalography (EEG).  However, reported bit rates are still low.  One reason for this is the low signal-to-noise ratio of the EEG [14].  We are currently investigating if BCIs based on electrocorticography (ECoG) are a viable alternative.  In this paper we present the method and examples of intracranial EEG recordings of three epilepsy patients with electrode grids placed on the motor cortex.  The patients were asked to repeatedly imagine movements of two kinds, e. g. , tongue or finger movements.  We analyze the classifiability of the data using Support Vector Machines (SVMs) [16, 19] and Recursive Channel Elimination (RCE) [10]. 
The BCI Competition 2003: Progress and Perspectives in Detection and Discrimination of EEG Single Trials| Abstract--- Interest in developing a new method of man-tomachine communication---a brain-computer interface or BCI--has grown steadily over the past few decades.  BCIs create a new communication channel between the brain and an output device by bypassing conventional motor output pathways of nerves and muscles.  These systems use signals recorded from the scalp, the surface of the cortex, or from inside the brain to enable users to control a variety of applications including simple word-processing software and orthotics.  BCI technology could therefore provide a new communication and control option for individuals who cannot otherwise express their wishes to the outside world.  Signal processing and classification methods are essential tools in the development of improved BCI technology.  We organized the BCI Competition 2003 to evaluate the current state of the art of these tools.  Four laboratories well versed in EEG-based BCI research provided six data sets in a documented format.  We made these data sets (i. e. , labeled training sets and unlabeled test sets) and their descriptions available on the Internet.  The goal in the competition was to maximize the performance measure for the test labels.  Researchers worldwide tested their algorithms and competed for the best classification results.  This article describes the six data sets and the results and function of the most successful algorithms. 
An Auditory Paradigm for Brain--Computer Interfaces| Abstract Motivated by the particular problems involved in communicating with "locked-in" paralysed patients, we aim to develop a braincomputer interface that uses auditory stimuli.  We describe a paradigm that allows a
Automated EEG feature selection for brain computer interfaces|
Phantom-limb pain as a perceptual correlate of cortical reorganization following arm amputation|
