Feature Representations for Image Retrieval: Beyond the Color Histogram| ABSTRACT We study solutions to the problem of feature representation in the context of content-based image retrieval (CBIR).  Retrieval is formulated as a classification problem, where the goal is to minimize probability of retrieval error.  Under this formulation, retrieval performance is directly related to the quality of density estimation which is, in turn, determined by properties of the feature representation.  We show that most representations of interest for the retrieval problem are particular cases of the mixture model, and present detailed arguments for why this is the most appropriate representation for retrieval. 
A Unifying View of Image Similarity| Abstract We study solutions to the problem of evaluating image similarity in the context of content-based image retrieval (CBIR).  Retrieval is formulated as a classification problem, where the goal is to minimize probability of retrieval error.  It is shown that this formulation establishes a common ground for comparing similarity functions, exposes assumptions hidden behind most of the ones in common use, enables a critical analysis of their relative merits, and determines the retrieval scenarios for which each may be most suited.  We conclude that most of the current similarity functions are sub-optimal special cases of the Bayesian criteria that results from explicit minimization of error probability. 
Bayesian Video Shot Segmentation| Abstract Prior knowledge about video structure can be used both as a means to improve the performance of content analysis and to extract features that allow semantic classification.  We introduce statistical models for two important components of this structure, shot duration and activity, and demonstrate the usefulness of these models by introducing a Bayesian formulation for the shot segmentation problem.  The new formulations is shown to extend standard thresholding methods in an adaptive and intuitive way, leading to improved segmentation accuracy. 
Content-Based Pre-Indexed Video| ABSTRACT The viability of large distributed image databases is strongly dependent on the development of new image representations capable of providing support for extended functionality, directly in the compressed domain.  We have recently introduced one such representation (Library-based coding) which we now augment with statistical pre-indexing schemes, automatically built at the time of encoding, that provide several layers of content description allowing efficient contentbased retrieval and summarization. 
CONTENT-BASED RETRIEVAL FROM IMAGE DATABASES: CURRENT SOLUTIONS AND FUTURE DIRECTIONS| ABSTRACT We review recent advances in image retrieval.  The two fundamental components of a retrieval system, representation and learning, are analyzed.  Each component is decomposed into its constituent building blocks: features, feature representation, and similarity function for the representation; short- and long-term procedures for learning.  We identify a series of requirements for each of the sub-areas, e. g.  optimality, invariance, perceptual relevance, computational tractability, and point out various approaches proposed to satisfy them.  Several open problems are also identified. 
Spatiotemporal model-based optic flow estimation| ABSTRACT We introduce a spatiotemporal model-based algorithm capable of providing estimates of optic flow which are coherent along a set of video frames.  The algorithm is based on a spatiotemporal motion model that consists of a quadratic constraint in time and an affine constraint in space.  Optic flow is computed through a delayed-decision process that incorporates knowledge about both image correlation along time, and the goodness of fit to the underlying motion-model.  The temporal coherence and parametric nature of the recovered optic flow can facilitate interactive access to the video stream and improve the efficiency of tasks such as video compression, interpolation or classification. 
Feature Selection by Maximum Marginal Diversity| Abstract We address the question of feature selection in the context of visual recognition.  It is shown that, besides efficient from a computational standpoint, the infomax principle is nearly optimal in the minimum Bayes error sense.  The concept of marginal diversity is introduced, leading to a generic principle for feature selection (the principle of maximum marginal diversity) of extreme computational simplicity.  The relationships between infomax and the maximization of marginal diversity are identified, uncovering the existence of a family of classification procedures for which near optimal (in the Bayes error sense) feature selection does not require combinatorial search.  Examination of this family in light of recent studies on the statistics of natural images suggests that visual recognition problems are a subset of it. 
A Probabilistic Architecture for Content-Based Image Retrieval| Abstract The design of an effective architecture for content-based retrieval from visual libraries requires careful consideration of the interplay between feature selection, feature representation, and similarity metric.  We present a solution where all the modules strive to optimize the same performance criteria: the probability of retrieval error.  This solution consists of a Bayesian retrieval criteria (shown to generalize the most prevalent similarity metrics in current use) and an embedded mixture representation over a multiresolution feature space (shown to provide a good trade-off between retrieval accuracy, invariance, perceptual relevance of similarity judgments, and complexity).  The new representation extends standard models (histogram and Gaussian) by providing simultaneous support for high-dimensional features and multi-modal densities and performs well on color, texture, and generic image databases. 
Learning from User Feedback in Image Retrieval Systems| Abstract We formulate the problem of retrieving images from visual databases as a problem of Bayesian inference.  This leads to natural and effective solutions for two of the most challenging issues in the design of a retrieval system: providing support for region-based queries without requiring prior image segmentation, and accounting for user-feedback during a retrieval session.  We present a new learning algorithm that relies on belief propagation to account for both positive and negative examples of the user's interests. 
A Kullback-Leibler Divergence Based Kernel for SVM Classification in Multimedia Applications| Abstract Over the last years significant efforts have been made to develop kernels that can be applied to sequence data such as DNA, text, speech, video and images.  The Fisher Kernel and similar variants have been suggested as good ways to combine an underlying generative model in the feature space and discriminant classifiers such as SVM's.  In this paper we suggest an alternative procedure to the Fisher kernel for systematically finding kernel functions that naturally handle variable length sequence data in multimedia domains.  In particular for domains such as speech and images we explore the use of kernel functions that take full advantage of well known probabilistic models such as Gaussian Mixtures and single full covariance Gaussian models.  We derive a kernel distance based on the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence between generative models.  In effect our approach combines the best of both generative and discriminative methods and replaces the standard SVM kernels.  We perform experiments on speaker identification/verification and image classification tasks and show that these new kernels have the best performance in speaker verification and mostly outperform the Fisher kernel based SVM's and the generative classifiers in speaker identification and image classification. 
A Spatiotemporal Motion Model for Video Summarization| Abstract The compact description of a video sequence through a single image map and a dominant motion has applications in several domains, including video browsing and retrieval, compression, mosaicing, and visual summarization.  Building such a representation requires the capability to register all the frames with respect to the dominant object in the scene, a task which has been, in the past, addressed through temporally localized motion estimates.  In this paper, we show how the lack of temporal consistency associated with such estimates can undermine the validity of the dominant motion assumption, leading to oscillation between different scene interpretations and poor registration.  To avoid this oscillation, we augment the motion model with a generic temporal constraint which increases the robustness against competing interpretations, leading to more meaningful content summarization. 
FRAME-FREE VIDEO| ABSTRACT Current digital video representations emphasize compression efficiency, lacking some of the flexibility required for interactive manipulation of digital bitstreams.  In this work, we present a video representation which can encompass both space and time, providing a temporally coherent description of video sequences.  The video sequence is segmented into its component objects, and the trajectory of each object throughout the sequence is described parametrically, according to a spatiotemporal motion model.  Since the motion model is a continuous function of time, the video representation becomes frame-rate independent and temporal resolution a user-definable parameter.  I. e.  the traditional sequence of frames, with temporal structure hardcoded into the bitstream at the time of production, is replaced by a collection of scene snapshots assembled on the fly by the decoder.  This enables random access and temporal scalability, the major building blocks for interactivity. 
Humane Interfaces to Video| Abstract We present approaches for content characterization along the natural divisions of structured and non-structured video.  We propose probabilistic clustering techniques as an alternative to query-by-example in the unstructured domain, and a Bayesian formulation that exploits knowledge about structure when it is available. 
Multiresolution Tangent Distance for Affine-invariant Classification| Abstract The ability to rely on similarity metrics invariant to image transformations is an important issue for image classification tasks such as face or character recognition.  We analyze an invariant metric that has performed well for the latter - the tangent distance - and study its limitations when applied to regular images, showing that the most significant among these (convergence to local minima) can be drastically reduced by computing the distance in a multiresolution setting.  This leads to the multiresolution tangent distance, which exhibits significantly higher invariance to image transformations, and can be easily combined with robust estimation procedures. 
Learning Over Multiple Temporal Scales in Image Databases| Abstract.  The ability to learn from user interaction is an important asset for content-based image retrieval (CBIR) systems.  Over short times scales, it enables the integration of information from successive queries assuring faster convergence to the desired target images.  Over long time scales (retrieval sessions) it allows the retrieval system to tailor itself to the preferences of particular users.  We address the issue of learning by formulating retrieval as a problem of Bayesian inference.  The new formulation is shown to have various advantages over previous approaches: it leads to the minimization of the probability of retrieval error, enables region-based queries without prior image segmentation, and suggests elegant procedures for combining multiple user specifications.  As a consequence of all this, it enables the design of short and long-term learning mechanisms that are simple, intuitive, and extremely efficient in terms of computational and storage requirements.  We introduce two such algorithms and present experimental evidence illustrating the clear advantages of learning for CBIR. 
Learning Mixture Hierarchies| Abstract The hierarchical representation of data has various applications in domains such as data mining, machine vision, or information retrieval.  In this paper we introduce an extension of the Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm that learns mixture hierarchies in a computationally efficient manner.  Efficiency is achieved by progressing in a bottom-up fashion, i. e.  by clustering the mixture components of a given level in the hierarchy to obtain those of the level above.  This clustering requires only knowledge of the mixture parameters, there being no need to resort to intermediate samples.  In addition to practical applications, the algorithm allows a new interpretation of EM that makes clear the relationship with non-parametric kernel-based estimation methods, provides explicit control over the trade-off between the bias and variance of EM estimates, and offers new insights about the behavior of deterministic annealing methods commonly used with EM to escape local minima of the likelihood. 
Layered Dynamic Textures| Abstract A dynamic texture is a video model that treats a video as a sample from a spatio-temporal stochastic process, specifically a linear dynamical system.  One problem associated with the dynamic texture is that it cannot model video where there are multiple regions of distinct motion.  In this work, we introduce the layered dynamic texture model, which addresses this problem.  We also introduce a variant of the model, and present the EM algorithm for learning each of the models.  Finally, we demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed model for the tasks of segmentation and synthesis of video. 
Empirical Bayesian EM-based Motion Segmentation| Abstract A recent trend in motion-based segmentation has been to rely on statistical procedures derived from expectationmaximization (EM) principles.  EM-based approaches have various attractives for segmentation, such as proceeding by taking non-greedy soft decisions with regards to the assignment of pixels to regions, or allowing the use of sophisticated priors capable of imposing spatial coherence on the segmentation.  A practical difficulty with such priors is, however, the determination of appropriate values for their parameters.  In this work, we exploit the fact that the EM framework is itself suited for empirical Bayesian data analysis to develop an algorithm that finds the estimates of the prior parameters which best explain the observed data.  Such an approach maintains the Bayesian appeal of incorporating prior beliefs, but requires only a qualitative description of the prior, avoiding the requirement of a quantitative specification of its parameters.  This eliminates the need for trial-and-error strategies for the determination of these parameters and leads to better segmentations in less iterations. 
Probabilistic retrieval: new insights and experimental results|
On the Complexity of Probabilistic Image Retrieval|
A Bayesian Video Modeling Framework for Shot Segmentation and Content Characterization|
Statistical models of video structure for content analysis and characterization|
Bayesian Modeling of Video Editing and Structure: Semantic Features for Video Summarization and Browsing|
A Bayesian Framework for Semantic Content Characterization|
Spatiotemporal Video Modeling for Content Summarization|
The EM algorithm for layered dynamic textures|
Mixtures of dynamic textures|
Probabilistic kernels for the classification of auto-regressive visual processes|
Library-based image coding,"|
Bayesian Modeling of Video Editing and Structure: Semantic Features for Video Summarisation and Browsing|
Bayesian representations and learning mechanisms for content based image retrieval,|
Library-based Coding: a Representation for Efficient Video Compression and Retrieval|
Library-based Image Coding using Vector Quantization of the Prediction Space|
Emprical Bayesian EM-based motion segmentation,|
What Is the Role of Independence for Visual Recognition?|
Empirical Bayesian Motion Segmentation|
On the efficient evaluation of probabilistic similarity functions for image retrieval|
The Kullback-Leibler Kernel as a Framework for Discriminant and Localized Representations for Visual Recognition|
Feature Selection by Maximum Marginal Diversity: optimality and implications for visual recognition|
EM-Based Motion Estimation and Segmentation|
