Transposing Relations: from Maybe Functions to Hash Tables| Finally, we relate the topic of functional transposition with the hashing technique for efficient data representation. 
LAFTER: a real-time face and lips tracker with facial expression recognition| time using Hidden Markov Models (HMMs).  The system has been tested on hundreds of users and has demonstrated extremely reliable and accurate performance.  Typical facial expression classification accuracies are near 100%. 
Layered Representations for Human Activity Recognition| Abstract We present the use of layered probabilistic representations using Hidden Markov Models for performing sensing, learning, and inference at multiple levels of temporal granularity.  We describe the use of the representation in a system that diagnoses states of a user's activity based on real-time streams of evidence from video, acoustic, and computer interactions.  We review the representation, present an implementation, and report on experiments with the layered representation in an office-awareness application. 
Converting Informal Meta-data to VDM-SL: A Reverse Calculation Approach| Introduction Enterprise competitiveness in the information age is very much dependent on the quality of the underlying information systems.  These provide crucial support to as important tasks as strategic business planning and decision support.  Information system quality is, in turn, highly dependent upon consistency and reliability of stored data.  However, it is hard to maintain the quality of fast-growing data in loosely structured information systems.  These very rapidly become infected with so-called "dirty" data, a problem nowadays identified under the data quality heading.  In the last few years, many companies around the world have spent large amounts of resources on process re-engineering encompassing both applications and data repositories, in order to face the growing interest in data mining [1], data warehouse [12] and Web marketing systems [25].  The authors are currently engaged in a R&D project (KARMA) which aims at addressing data-quality from a formal-method viewpoint.  This includes the adoption of formal techniques for meta-data representation and (reverse) calculation of data intensive applications.  The KARMA-consortium involves three software houses 1 which contribute to the project with their experience in large data purification contracts. 
Software Reuse by Model Reification| Abstract This paper builds upon earlier work on systematically calculating implementations from model-oriented specifications based on abstract data types.  The calculation process is called reification and is usually done by "hand", requiring some ingenuity and time.  The adoption of model-oriented software specification encompasses the ability to classify and compare data structures.  The reification of such data models (specifications of software data structures) also provides a powerful reuse mechanism up to isomorphic and inequational refinements.  Following the underlying formal calculus (Sets), one can easily demonstrate that, for instance, a certain C++ class can be implemented by the composition of already available ones.  Our aim is to develop an automatic "reificator", based on term-rewriting theory, which is intended to take the specification of a data structure, written in the Sets notation, and to refine it until a collection of reusable data models are identified.  We also refer that genetic algorithms have the potential to support inequational termrewriting, such as is required in animating the Sets calculus.  This topic is briefly presented. 
Curve Analogies| Abstract This paper describes a method for learning statistical models of 2D curves, and shows how these models can be used to design line art rendering styles by example.  A user can create a new style by providing an example of the style, e. g.  by sketching a curve in a drawing program.  Our method can then synthesize random new curves in this style, and modify existing curves to have the same style as the example.  This method can incorporate position constraints on the resulting curves. 
S-SEER: Selective Perception in a Multimodal Office Activity Recognition System| Abstract.  The computation required for sensing and processing perceptual information can impose significant burdens on personal computer systems.  We explore several policies for selective perception in SEER, a multimodal system for recognizing office activity that relies on a cascade of Hidden Markov Models (HMMs) named Layered Hidden Markov Model (LHMMs).  We use LHMMs to diagnose states of a user's activity based on real-time streams of evidence from video, audio and computer (keyboard and mouse) interactions.  We review our efforts to employ expected-value-of-information (EVI) to limit sensing and analysis in a context-sensitive manner.  We discuss an implementation of a greedy EVI analysis and compare the results of using this analysis with a heuristic sensing policy that makes observations at different frequencies.  Both policies are then compared to a random perception policy, where sensors are selected at random.  Finally, we discuss the sensitivity of ideal perceptual actions to preferences encoded in utility models about information value and the cost of sensing. 
DyPERS: Dynamic Personal Enhanced Reality System| Abstract DyPERS, 'Dynamic Personal Enhanced Reality System', is a wearable system which uses augmented reality and computer vision to autonomously retrieve 'media memories' based on associations with real objects the user encounters.  These are evoked as audio and video clips taken by the user and overlayed on top of real objects the user looks at.  The user's visual and auditory scene is stored in real-time by the system (upon request) and is then associated (by user input) with a snap shot of a visual object.  The object acts as a key which is detected by a real-time vision system when it is in view, triggering DyPERS to play back the appropriate audio-visual sequence.  The vision system is a probabilistic algorithm which is capable of discriminating between hundreds of everyday objects under varying viewing conditions (lighting, pose, etc. ).  The record-andassociate paradigm of the system has many potential applications.  Results on the use of the system in a museum tour scenario are described.  1
Selective perception policies for guiding sensing and computation in multimodal systems: a comparative analysis| ABSTRACT Intensive computations required for sensing and processing perceptual information can impose significant burdens on personal computer systems.  We explore several policies for selective perception in SEER, a multimodal system for recognizing office activity that relies on a layered Hidden Markov Model representation.  We review our efforts to employ expected-value-of-information (EVI) computations to limit sensing and analysis in a context-sensitive manner.  We discuss an implementation of a one-step myopic EVI analysis and compare the results of using the myopic EVI with a heuristic sensing policy that makes observations at different frequencies.  Both policies are then compared to a random perception policy, where sensors are selected at random.  Finally, we discuss the sensitivity of ideal perceptual actions to preferences encoded in utility models about information value and the cost of sensing. 
GWINDOWS: Towards Robust Perception-Based UI| Abstract--- Perceptual user interfaces promise modes of fluid computer-human interaction that complement the mouse and keyboard, and have been especially motivated in non-desktop scenarios, such as kiosks or smart rooms.  Such interfaces, however, have been slow to see use for a variety of reasons, including the computational burden they impose, a lack of robustness outside the laboratory, unreasonable calibration demands, and a shortage of sufficiently compelling applications.  We have tackled some of these difficulties by using a fast stereo vision algorithm for recognizing hand positions and gestures.  Our system uses two inexpensive video cameras to extract depth information.  This depth information enhances automatic object detection and tracking robustness, and may also be used in applications.  We demonstrate the algorithm in combination with speech recognition to perform several basic window management tasks, report on a user study probing the ease of using the system, and discuss the implications of such a system for future user interfaces. 
"Explosive" Programming Controlled by Calculation| Abstract.  In the design of a functional library in the area of data-mining several algorithmic patterns have been identified which call for generic programming.  Some of these have to do with flattening functions which arise in a particular group of hierarchical systems.  In this paper we describe our efforts to make such functionalities generic.  We start by a generic inductive construction of the intended class of hierarchical types.  We conclude by relating the structure of the relevant base-functors with the algebraic structure which is required by the generic flattening functionality, in particular concerning its "deforestation" towards a linearly complex implementation.  The instances we provide as examples include the widely known bill of materials "explode" operation. 
An Interactive Computer Vision System DyPERS: Dynamic Personal Enhanced Reality System| Abstract.  DyPERS, 'Dynamic Personal Enhanced Reality System', uses augmented reality and computer vision to autonomously retrieve 'media memories' based on associations with real objects the user encounters.  These are evoked as audio and video clips relevant for the user and overlayed on top of real objects the user encounters.  The system utilizes an adaptive, audio-visual learning system on a tetherless wearable computer.  The user's visual and auditory scene is stored in real-time by the system (upon request) and is then associated (by user input) with a snap shot of a visual object.  The object acts as a key such that when the real-time vision system detects its presence in the scene again, DyPERS plays back the appropriate audio-visual sequence.  The vision system is a probabilistic algorithm which is capable of discriminating between hundreds of everyday objects under varying viewing conditions (view changes, lighting, etc. ).  Once an audio-visual clip is stored, the vision system automatically recalls it and plays it back when it detects the object that the user wished to use to remind him of the sequence.  The DyPERS interface augments the user without encumbering him and effectively mimics a form of audio-visual memory.  First results on performance and usability are shown. 
Coupled hidden Markov models for complex action recognition| Abstract We present algorithms for coupling and training hidden Markov models (HMMs) to model interacting processes, and demonstrate their superiority to conventional HMMs in a vision task classifying two-handed actions.  HMMs are perhaps the most successful framework in perceptual computing for modeling and classifying dynamic behaviors, popular because they offer dynamic time warping, a training algorithm, and a clear Bayesian semantics.  However, the Markovian framework makes strong restrictive assumptions about the system generating the signal---that it is a single process having a small number of states and an extremely limited state memory.  The single-process model is often inappropriate for vision (and speech) applications, resulting in low ceilings on model performance.  Coupled HMMs provide an efficient way to resolve many of these problems, and offer superior training speeds, model likelihoods, and robustness to initial conditions. 
LAFTER: Lips and Face Real-Time Tracker| Abstract This paper describes an active-camera real-time system for tracking, shape description, and classification of the human face and mouth using only an SGI Indy computer.  The system is based on use of 2-D blob features, which are spatially-compact clusters of pixels that are similar in terms of low-level image properties.  Patterns of behavior (e. g. , facial expressions and head movements) can be classified in real-time using Hidden Markov Model (HMM) methods.  The system has been tested on hundreds of users and has demonstrated extremely reliable and accurate performance.  Typical classification accuracies are near 100%. 
Driver Behavior Recognition and Prediction in a SmartCar| ABSTRACT This paper presents our SmartCar testbed platform: a real-time data acquisition and playback system and a machine learning --dynamical graphical models-- framework for modeling and recognizing driver maneuvers at a tactical level, with particular focus on how contextual information affects the driver's performance.  The SmartCar's perceptual input is multi-modal: four video signals capture the surrounding traffic, the driver's head position and the driver's viewpoint; and a real-time data acquisition system records the car's brake, gear, steering wheel angle, speed and acceleration throttle signals.  We have carried out driving experiments with the instrumented car over a period of 2 months.  Over 70 drivers have driven the SmartCar for 1. 25 hours in the greater Boston area.  Dynamical Graphical models, HMMs and potentially extensions (CHMMs), have been trained using the experimental driving data to create models of seven different driver maneuvers: passing, changing lanes right and left, turning right and left, starting and stopping.  These models are essential to build more realistic automated cars in car simulators, to improve the human-machine interface in driver assistance systems, to prevent potential dangerous situations and to create more realistic automated cars in car simulators. 
Layered representations for learning and inferring office activity from multiple sensory channels| Abstract We present the use of layered probabilistic representations for modeling human activities, and describe how we use the representation to do
Calculate databases with `simplicity'| Abstract # Effort to replace " ` a la Codd" database schema design (normalization etc) by calculation based on simple (dually, injective) binary relations.  # Simple relations relevant because database entities can be modelled as finite such relations. 
Natural Regularization in SVMs| Abstract We provide a regularization-theoretic analysis of a class of SV kernels {called natural kernels{ based on generative models with density p(xj#), such as the Fisher kernel proposed in [5].  In particular, we show that the latter corresponds to a regularization operator (prior) penalizing the L 2 (p)-norm of the estimated function.  Moreover, we compute the corresponding eigendecompositions and show that they isotropically map the input space into feature space. 
A Bayesian Computer Vision System for Modeling Human Interaction| Abstract.  We describe a real-time computer vision and machine learning system for modeling and recognizing human behaviors in a visual surveillance task.  The system is particularly concerned with detecting when interactions between people occur, and classifying the type of interaction.  Examples of interesting interaction behaviors include following another person, altering one's path to meet another, and so forth.  Our system combines top-down with bottom-up information in a closed feedback loop, with both components employing a statistical Bayesian approach.  We propose and compare two different state-based learning architectures, namely HMMs and CHMMs, for modeling behaviors and interactions.  The CHMM model is shown to work much more efficiently and accurately.  Finally, to deal with the problem of limited training data, a synthetic `Alife-style' training system is used to develop flexible prior models for recognizing human interactions.  We demonstrate the ability to use these a priori models to accurately classify real human behaviors and interactions with no additional tuning or training. 
Bringing Camila and Sets Together --- the| Introduction The presentation of the Camila [ABNO97a] Toolset at AMAST'97 [ABNO97b] includes two demos --bams. cam and ppd. cam --- which show how incremental data refinement is supported by the prototype / implementation hybridization primitives available in the Toolset.  The process of animating each of these data refinement case studies is hard to understand if unaccompanied by the underlying mathematical calculations in the Sets calculus [Oli90, Oli92, Oli97] 1 .  Bridging the gap between theory and practice, this document not only outlines such mathematical calculations which lead to the provided relational model implementations, but also shows how such a process can be partly automated and animated in the Toolset.  A synopsis of Sets is presented in Appendix A.  This should be read in advance by those unfamiliar with this program calculus.  Reference [AB91] is suggested for those unfamiliar with the Camila syntax and environment.  By inspecting the present L A T E X source, readers will have an opportunity to understand how additional tools in the Toolset --- namely CamT E X (a Camila into L A T E X embedder) and Pretty (a L A T E X output Camila pretty printer) --- can be used in order to produce documentation in an integrated fashion.  1.  The bams. cam Prototype Camila prototype bams. cam is listed in Appendix D. 1.  Demo step 1.  At Unix shell level type camila bams. cam in order to start the animation of the prototype.  1. 1 The Specification This is the first section of the prototype.  It presents the animation of the formal specification of a toy "bank account management system" (BAMS).  This is really a very simple specification example based on the following abstract syntax: BAMS = AccId ,! Account Account = H : 2 AccHolder \Theta B : Amount AccId = STR AccHolder = STR Amount = INT (1. 1) 1 Sets's URL is http://www. di. 
Submitted to ACM Autonomous Agents 99 A Synthetic Agent System for Bayesian Modeling Human Interactions| Abstract When building statistical machine learning models from real data one of the most frequently encountered difficulties is the limited amount of training data compared to what is needed by the specific learning architecture.  In order to deal with this problem we have developed a synthetic (simulated) agent training system that let us develop flexible prior models for recognizing human interactions in a pedestrian visual surveillance task.  We demonstrate the ability to use these prior models to accurately classify real human behaviors and interactions with no additional tuning or training. 
Software Reuse by Model Reification|
Formal specification and prototyping of a building description language|
Can distribution be (statically) calculated? (in preparation),|
A Reification Calculus for Model-Oriented Software Specification|
Art - um laborat'orio de reificaco ``gen'etica"|
Formal software engineering supported by functional programming|
Software Reification using the SETS Calculus|
Fuzzy object comparasion and its application to a selfadaptable query mechanism|
Prototyping and refinement of constructive specifications|
Image analogies|
3D modeling and tracking of human lip motions|
Image analogies|
Natural regularization from generative models|
Statistical modeling of human interactions|
Curve Analogies|
Coupled hidden Markov models for complex action,"|
Images analogies|
3D lip shapes from video: a combined physical-statistical model|
Real-time 3-D Tracking and Classification of Human Behavior,|
Fuzzy comparison of recursive objects: A case study|
Reverse Program Calculation Supported by Code Slicing|
A real-time lips and face tracker with facial expression recognition|
Hash Tables --- A Case Study in -calculation|
Hash tables as transposed data structures,|
Layered Representation for Learning and Inferring Office Activity from Multiple Sensory Channels,|
Fuzzy object comparison and its application to a self-adaptable query mechanism|
Graphical models for recognising human interactions|
Augmented realities in tegrating user and physical models|
Natural" data refinement in Sets|
GWindows: Robust Stereo Vision for Gesture-Based|
Regulation of life-span by germ-line stem cells in Caenorhabditis elegans|
"Experimental data on page replacement algorithm|
Towards Perceptual Intelligence: Statistical Modeling of Human Individual and Interactive Behaviors|
Software Reuse by Model Reification|
Refinamento transformacional de especificac~ oes (terminais)|
The transformational paradigm as a means of smoothing abrupt softwar e design steps|
Metodos Formais de Programac~ ao|
\Graphical models for driver behaviour recognition in a smartcar,"|
A Synthetic Agent System for Bayesian Modeling Human Interactions|
Camila: Formal software engineering supported by functional programming|
Normalization is data refinement|
Data sophistication is not data refinement|
Dynamic Personal Enhanced Reality System MIT Media Laboratory,|
A data structuring calculus and its application to program development,|
Bringing CAMILA and SETS together ---|
"Hierarchical representations for learning and inferring office activity from multimodal information,"|
Can distribution be (statically) calculated?|
A Reification Handbook|
Implementation Studies about Automatic Model Reification based on the SETS Calculus|
Especificaco Formal de Programas|
Coupled hmm for complex action recognition|
