Subspace Linear Discriminant Analysis for Face Recognition| Abstract In this paper we describe a holistic face recognition method based on subspace Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA).  The method consists of two steps: first we project the face image from the original vector space to a face subspace via Principal Component Analysis where the subspace dimension is carefully chosen, and then we use LDA to obtain a linear classifier in the subspace.  The criterion we use to choose the subspace dimension enables us to generate classseparable features via LDA from the full subspace representation.  Hence we are able to solve the generalization/overfitting problem when we perform face recognition on a large face dataset but with very few training face images available per testing person.  In addition, we employ a weighted distance metric guided by the LDA eigenvalues to improve the performance of the subspace LDA method.  Finally, the improved performance of the subspace LDA approach is demonstrated through experiments using the FERET dataset for face recognition/verification, a large mugshot dataset for person verification, and the MPEG-7 dataset.  We believe that this approach provides a useful framework for other image recognition tasks as well. 
Face recognition: A literature survey| Abstract As one of the most successful applications of image analysis and understanding, face recognition has recently received significant attention, especially during the past several years.  This is evidenced by the emergence of face recognition conferences such as AFGR [1] and AVBPA [2], and systematic empirical evaluations of face recognition techniques, including the FERET [3, 4, 5, 6] and XM2VTS [7] protocols.  There are at least two reasons for this trend; the first is the wide range of commercial and law enforcement applications, and the second is the availability of feasible technologies after 30 years of research.  This paper provides an up-to-date critical survey of still- and video-based face recognition research. 
The FERET evaluation methodology for face-recognition algorithms|
Face recognition vendor test 2000, evaluation report,|
Bootstrapping Spurious Regression,|
Point set pattern matching using the procrustean metric|
CGI Security http://www|go2net. 
On the Importance of Small Coordinate Projections|
"E"cient Estimation of Secon Moment Parameters in the ARCH Model,|
FRVT 2000 evaluation report|
