Segmentation of Dynamic Scenes from the Multibody Fundamental Matrix| Abstract We present a geometric approach for the analysis of dynamic scenes containing multiple rigidly moving objects seen in two perspective views.  Our approach exploits the algebraic and geometric properties of the so-called multibody epipolar constraint and its associated multibody fundamental matrix, which are natural generalizations of the epipolar constraint and of the fundamental matrix to multiple moving objects.  We derive a rank constraint on the image points from which one can estimate the number of independent motions and linearly solve for the multibody fundamental matrix.  We prove that the epipoles of each independent motion lie exactly in the intersection of the left null space of the multibody fundamental matrix with the so-called Veronese surface.  We then show that individual epipoles and epipolar lines can be uniformly and efficiently computed by using a novel polynomial factorization technique.  Given the epipoles and epipolar lines, the estimation of individual fundamental matrices becomes a linear problem.  Then, motion and feature point segmentation is automatically obtained from either the epipoles and epipolar lines or the individual fundamental matrices.  We test the proposed approach by segmenting a real sequence. 
A PERCEPTUAL MEASURE TO PREDICT THE VISUAL DISTINCTION BETWEEN TWO COLOR IMAGES| Abstract This paper presents a perceptual model to predict the visual distinction between a pair of color images which correlates well with the human observer's evaluation.  Its basic assumptions are to be in agreement with spatial-frequency channels models quite successful for the detection of visual patterns.  The model was applied to predict the perceived quality of a basic pattern as well as the visibility of the artifacts in JPEG reconstructions.  The rank order produced by the PID error and other quantitative measure are compared with the reference rank order as given by a subjective rating performed by photointerpreters. 
A Hierarchical Approach to Probabilistic Pursuit-Evasion Games with Unmanned Ground and Aerial Vehicles| Abstract We consider the problem of having a team of Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGV) and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) pursue a team of evaders while concurrently building a map in an unknown environment.  We cast this problem in a probabilistic game-theoretic framework and consider two computationally feasible pursuit policies: greedy and global-max.  We implement this scenario on a fleet of UGVs and UAVs by using a distributed hierarchical system architecture.  Finally, we present both simulation and experimental results that evaluate the pursuit policies relating expected capture times to the speed and intelligence of the evaders and the sensing capabilities of the pursuers. 
USING MODELS OF FEATURE PERCEPTION IN DISTORTION MEASURE GUIDANCE| Number of manuscript pages: 28 Number of figures: 7 Number of tables: 2 Abstract In this paper we present three error measures based on feature perception models, in which pixel errors are computed on locations at which humans might perceive features in the reference image.  In the first part of this work, the three schemes of feature detection will be discussed and evaluated in terms of their performance for a simple visual signal-processing task.  The first model is based on the use of local intensity gradients, the second based on the use of phase congruency in an image, and the latter based on the use of local energy maxima for a few active sensors under a multichannel organization of the reference picture.  In the second part of this paper, examples are provided of object detection and recognition applications that illustrate the ability of the induced error measures to predict the detectability of objects in natural backgrounds as well as their perceptual capabilities. 
A Factorization Method for 3D Multi-body Motion Estimation and Segmentation| Abstract We study the problem of estimating the motion of independently moving objects observed by a moving perspective camera.  Given a
Identification of PWARX Hybrid Models with Unknown and Possibly Different Orders| Abstract--- We consider the problem of identifying the orders and the model parameters of PWARX hybrid models from noiseless input/output data.  We cast the identification problem in an algebraic geometric framework in which the number of discrete states corresponds to the degree of a multivariate polynomial p and the orders and the model parameters are encoded on the factors of p.  We derive a rank constraint on the input/output data from which one can estimate the coefficients of p.  Given p, we show that one can estimate the orders and the parameters of each ARX model from the derivatives of p at a collection of regressors that minimize a certain objective function.  Our solution does not require previous knowledge about the orders of the ARX models (only an upper bound is needed), nor does it constraint the orders to be equal.  Also the switching mechanism can be arbitrary, hence the switches need not be separated by a minimum dwell time.  We illustrate our approach with an algebraic example of a switching circuit and with simulation results in the presence of noisy data. 
THE ROLE OF INTEGRAL FEATURES FOR PERCEIVING IMAGE DISTORTION| Number of manuscript pages: 30 Number of figures: 6 Number of tables: 4 Abstract The computational model we propose deals with the measurement of image distortion in such a way that the comparison of a pair of images is performed by matching the corresponding integral features registered within the same fixation point which a spatial sensitivity function directs about the images.  An integral feature refers to the resultant of recombining the separable representations (color, form, brightness, etc) at stimulus locations with focal attention.  The computation of a spatial sensitivity function determines the stimulus locations in the original image.  These locations are processed serially in order to measure distortion between the corresponding conjunction of features in the image pair. 
Rank conditions of the multiple viewmatrix|
Kernels and dynamical systems|
Rank conditions of multiple view matrix in multiple view geometry|
"Distributed formation control with omnidirectional vision based motion segmentation and visual servoing,"|
"A Vision System for Landing an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle,|
Camera self-calibration: Geometry and Algorithms| Submitted to IEEE transactions on PAMI and also see UC Berkeley Technical Report UCB/. 
Segmentation of dynamic scenes from image intensities|
Generalized Principal Component Analysis (GPCA): an Algebraic Geometric Approach to Subspace Clustering and Motion Segmentation|
Computing visual target distinctiveness through integral opponent-color features",|
"The role of integral features for perceiving image discriminability",|
"How to define the notion of microcalcifications in digitized mammograms",|
Vision-based detection of autonomous vehicles for pursuit-evasion games,|
Optimal motion from multiple views by normalized epipolar constraints|
The RGFF representational model: a system for the automatically learned partitioning of visual patterns in digital images|
\Best achievable compression ratio for lossy image coding",|
Computing visual target distinctness through selective filtering, statistical features and visual patterns|
\Visual distinctness based on partially invariant features",|
Kruppa's equation revisted: Degeneracy and renormalization|
Rational systems exhibit moderate risk aversion with respect to "gambles" on variable-resolution compression|
Origins of Illusory percepts and subtle objects in Complex Images|
