UMass Progress in 3D Building Model Acquisition \Lambda| Abstract The Automated Site Construction, Extension, Detection and Refinement system (ASCENDER) has been developed to automatically populate a site model with buildings extracted from multiple,
Advances in Cooperative Multi-Sensor Video Surveillance| Abstract Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) and the Sarnoff Corporation (Sarnoff) are performing an integrated feasibility demonstration of Video Surveillance and Monitoring (VSAM).  The objective is to develop a cooperative, multi-sensor video surveillance system that provides continuous coverage over battlefield areas.  Significant achievements have been demonstrated during VSAM Demo I in November 1997, and in the intervening year leading up to Demo II in October 1998. 
Task Driven Perceptual Organization for Extraction of Rooftop Polygons \Lambda| Abstract A new method for extracting planar polygonal rooftops in monocular aerial imagery is proposed.  Through bottom-up and top-down construction of perceptual groups, polygons in a single aerial image can be robustly extracted.  Orthogonal corners and lines are extracted and hierarchically related using perceptual grouping techniques.  Top-down feature verification is used so that features, and links between the features, are verified with local information in the image and weighed in a graph structure according to the underlying support for each feature.  Cycles in the graph correspond to possible building rooftop hypotheses.  Virtual features are hypothesized for the perceptual completion of partial rooftops.  Extraction of the "best" grouping of features into a building rooftop hypothesis is posed as a graph search problem.  The maximally weighted, independent set of cycles in the graph is extracted as the final set of roof boundaries. 
Automated Texture Extraction from Multiple Images to Support Site Model Refinementand Visualization \Lambda| Abstract Texture mapping has wide and importantapplications in visualization and virtual reality. Surface texture extraction from a single image suffers from perspectivedistortion, data deficiency, and corruption caused byshadows and occlusions.  In this paper, a system is developed for automated acquisition of complete and consistent texture maps from multiple images in order to support subsequent detailed surface analysis and scene rendering.  Given camera and lightsource parameters for each image, and a geometric model of the scene, the textures of object surfaces are systematically collected into an organized orthographic library.  Occlusions and shadows caused byobjects in the scene are computed and associated with each retrieved surface.  A "Best Piece Representation" algorithm is designed to combine intensities from multiple views, resulting in a unique surface intensity representation.  Detailed surface structures, suchaswindows and doors, are extracted from the uniquely represented surface images to refine the geometric model.  Experiments showsuccessful applications of this approachtomodel refinementand scene visualization. 
An Orthographic Facet Image Library for Supporting Site Model Refinement and Visualization \Lambda| Abstract This paper addresses the issue of combining intensity information from multiple images for analysis of object surface intensities to support model refinement and scene rendering.  Given camera and light source parameters for each image, and a 3D CAD model of objects in the scene, the textures of object surfaces are systematically collected into an organized orthographic library.  Occlusions and shadows caused by objects in the scene are predicted from the model and associated with each retrieved surface.  The problem of combining intensities from multiple images is explored, and the result is an algorithm that produces a unique surface intensity representation that is as complete and consistent as possible.  A successful application of this approach to model refinement and scene visualization is shown, using results from the RADIUS aerial image understanding project. 
Silhouette-Based Human Identification from Body Shape and Gait| Abstract Our goal is to establish a simple baseline method for human identification based on body shape and gait.  This baseline recognition method provides a lower bound against which to evaluate more complicated procedures.  We present a viewpoint dependent technique based on template matching of body silhouettes.  Cyclic gait analysis is performed to extract key frames from a test sequence.  These frames are compared to training frames using normalized correlation, and subject classification is performed by nearest neighbor matching among correlation scores.  The approach implicitly captures biometric shape cues such as body height, width, and body-part proportions, as well as gait cues such as stride length and amount of arm swing.  We evaluate the method on four databases with varying viewing angles, background conditions (indoors and outdoors), walk styles and pixels on target. 
A system for automated site model acquisition \Lambda| ABSTRACT A system has been developed to acquire, extend and refine 3D geometric site models from aerial imagery.  The system hypothesizes potential building roofs in an image, automatically locates supporting geometric evidence in other images, and determines the precise shape and position of the new buildings via multi-image triangulation.  Projectively warped image intensity maps are associated with the faces of each recovered building, allowing realistic rendering of the scene from new viewpoints. 
The Ascender System Automated Site Modeling from Multiple Aerial Images| Abstract The Ascender system acquires, extends and refines 3D geometric site models from calibrated aerial imagery.  To acquire a new site model, an automated building detector is run on one image to hypothesize potential building rooftops.  Supporting evidence is located in other images via epipolar line segment matching in constrained search regions.  The precise 3D shape and location of each building is then determined by multi-image triangulation under geometric constraints of 3D orthogonality, parallelness, colinearity and coplanarity of lines and surfaces.  Projective mapping of image intensity information onto these polyhedral building models results in a realistic site model that can be rendered using virtual "fly- through" graphics.  As new images of the site become available, model extension and refinement procedures are performed to add previously unseen buildings and to improve the geometric accuracy of the existing 3D building models.  In this way, the system gradually accumulates evidence over time to make the site model more complete and more accurate.  An extensive performance evaluation of component algorithms and the full system has been carried out.  Two-dimensional building detection accuracy, as well as accuracy of the three-dimensional building reconstruction, are presented for a representative data set. 
Matching Perspective Views of Coplanar Structures using Projective Unwarping and Similarity Matching| Abstract We consider the problem of matching perspective views of coplanar structures composed of line segments.  Both model-to-image and image-to-image correspondence matching are given a consistent treatment.  These matching scenarios generally require discovery of an eight parameter projective mapping.  However, when the horizon line of the object plane can be found in the image, done here using vanishing point analysis, these problems reduce to a simpler six parameter affine matching problem.  When the intrinsic lens parameters of the camera are known, the problem further reduces to four parameter affine similarity matching. 
A Multi-Agent Negotiation Testbed for Contracting Tasks with Temporal and Precedence Constraints| Abstract We are interested in supporting multi-agent contracting, in which customer agents solicit the resources and capabilities of other, self-interested agents in order to accomplish their goals.  Goals may involve the execution of multi-step tasks, in which different tasks are contracted out to different suppliers.  We have developed a testbed that allows us to study decision behaviors of agents in this context.  It can generate sets of tasks with known statistical attributes, formulate and submit requests for quotations, generate bids with well-defined statistics, and evaluate those bids according to a number of criteria.  Each of these processes is supported by an abstract interface and a series of pluggable modules with a large number of configuration parameters, and with data collection and analysis tools. 
On-Line Selection of Discriminative Tracking Features| Abstract This paper presents a method for evaluating multiple feature spaces while tracking, and for adjusting the set of features used to improve tracking performance.  Our hypothesis is that the features that best discriminate between object and background are also best for tracking the object.  We develop an on-line feature selection mechanism based on the two-class variance ratio measure, applied to log likelihood distributions computed with respect to a given feature from samples of object and background pixels.  This feature selection mechanism is embedded in a tracking system that adaptively selects the top-ranked discriminative features for tracking.  Examples are presented to illustrate how the method adapts to changing appearances of both tracked object and scene background. 
Articulated Motion Modeling for Activity Analysis| Abstract We propose an algorithm for articulated human motion segmentation that estimates parametric motions of body parts and segments images into moving regions accordingly.  Our approach combines robust optical flow estimation, RANSAC, and region segmentation using color and Gaussian shape priors.  This combination results in an algorithm that can robustly estimate and segment multiple motions, even for moving regions with small support and in lowresolution images.  Based on the raw motion segmentation, consistent body motions are detected over time to characterize human activity.  The effectiveness of this approach is demonstrated in a real scenario: characterizing dining activities of patients at a nursing home. 
Using a DEM to Determine Geospatial Object Trajectories| Abstract This paper addresses the estimation of moving object trajectories within a geospatial coordinate system, using a network of video sensors.  A high-resolution (0. 5m grid spacing) digital elevation map (DEM) has been constructed using a helicopter-based laser rangefinder.  Object locations are estimated by intersecting viewing rays from a calibrated sensor platform with the DEM.  Continuous object trajectories can then be assembled from sequences of single-frame location estimates using spatio-temporal filtering and domain knowledge. 
ELECTRON CLOUD POTENTIAL REMEDIES FOR THE VACUUM SYSTEM OF THE SPS| Abstract The SPS has recently exhibited strong pressure rises, up to 10 --7 Torr with 610 12 circulating protons, caused by intense electron bombardment as a result of electron multipacting, in the presence of LHC type beams.  A number of potential remedies to combat the build-up of an electron cloud have been discussed in the context of the LHC.  These proposals have ranged from using well--defined surfaces, provided by special coatings, preparations or treatments and/or in-situ cleaning, such as bake-out or beam scrubbing, to the integration of longitudinal clearing electrodes or solenoid fields.  For completeness, machine parameters, such as the bunch separation, have also been reconsidered.  These potential cures to limit the pressure rises in the SPS in the presence of LHC type beams are addressed in this paper. 
Multi-Agent Negotiation using Combinatorial Auctions with Precedence Constraints| Abstract We present a system for multi-agent contract negotiation, implemented as an auctionbased market architecture called MAGNET.  A principal feature of MAGNET is support for negotiation of contracts based on temporal and precedence constraints.  We propose using an extended combinatorial auction paradigm to support these negotiations.  A critical component of the agent negotiation process in a MAGNET system is the ability of a customer to evaluate the bids of competing suppliers.  Winner determination in standard combinatorial auctions is known to be difficult, and the problem is further complicated by the addition of temporal constraints and a requirement to complete the winner-determination process within a hard deadline.  We introduce two approaches to the extended winner determination problem.  One is based on Integer Programming, and the other is a flexible, multi-criterion, anytime bid evaluator based on a simulated annealing framework.  We evaluate the performance of both approaches and show how performance data can be used in the agent's deliberation-scheduling process.  The results show that coarse problem-size metrics can be effectively used to predict winner-determination processing time. 
Mean-shift Blob Tracking through Scale Space| Abstract The mean-shift algorithm is an efficient technique for tracking 2D blobs through an image.  Although the scale of the mean-shift kernel is a crucial parameter, there is presently no clean mechanism for choosing or updating scale while tracking blobs that are changing in size.  We adapt Lindeberg's theory of feature scale selection based on local maxima of differential scale-space filters to the problem of selecting kernel scale for mean-shift blob tracking.  We show that a difference of Gaussian (DOG) mean-shift kernel enables efficient tracking of blobs through scale space.  Using this kernel requires generalizing the mean-shift algorithm to handle images that contain negative sample weights. 
A Space-Sweep Approach to True Multi-Image Matching| Abstract The problem of determining feature correspondences across multiple views is considered.  The term "true multi-image" matching is introduced to describe techniques that make full and efficient use of the geometric relationships between multiple images and the scene.  A true multiimage technique must generalize to any number of images, be of linear algorithmic complexity in the number of images, and use all the images in an equal manner.  A new space-sweep approach to true multi-image matching is presented that simultaneously determines 2D feature correspondences and the 3D positions of feature points in the scene.  The method is based on the premise that areas of space where several viewing rays intersect are the likely locations of observed 3D scene features.  It is shown that the intersections of viewing rays with a plane sweeping through space can be determined very efficiently, and a statistical model is developed to tell how likely it is that a given number of viewing rays will pass through an area of the plane by chance.  The method is illustrated on a seven-image matching example from the aerial image domain. 
Site Model Acquisition under the UMass RADIUS Project \Lambda| Abstract A set of image understanding (IU) modules is being developed for performing several geometric site modeling tasks, including initial model acquisition, model extension, model-to-image registration and site model refinement.  This paper describes how the UMass system would acquire an initial site model.  IU algorithms have been developed to hypothesize potential building roofs in an image, automatically locate supporting geometric evidence in other images, and determine the precise shape and position of the new buildings via multi-image triangulation.  This process is demonstrated on a subset of images from the RADIUS Model Board 1 data set. 
Three-Dimensional Reconstruction of Points and Lines with Unknown Correspondence across Images| Abstract Three-dimensional reconstruction from a set of images is an important and difficult problem in computer vision.  In this paper, we address the problem of determining image feature correspondences while simultaneously reconstructing the corresponding 3D features, given the camera poses of disparate monocular views.  First, two new affinity measures are presented that capture the degree to which candidate features from different images consistently represent the projection of the same 3D point or 3D line.  An affinity measure for point features in two different views is defined with respect to their distance from a hypothetical projected 3D pseudo-intersection point.  Similarly, an affinity measure for 2D image line segments across three views is defined with respect to a 3D pseudo-intersection line.  These affinity measures provide a foundation for determining unknown correspondences using weighted bipartited graphs representing candidate point and line matches across different images.  As a result of this graph representation, a standard graph-theoretic algorithm can provide an optimal, simultaneous matching and triangulation of points across two views, and lines across three views.  Experimental results on synthetic and real data demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach. 
Supporting Peer Help and Collaboration in Distributed Workplace Environments| Abstract.  Increasingly, organizations are geographically distributed with activities coordinated and integrated through the use of information technology.  Such organizations face constant change and the corresponding need for continual learning and renewal of their workers.  In this paper we describe a prototype system called PHelpS (Peer Help System) that facilitates workers in carrying out such "life long learning".  PHelpS supports workers as they perform their tasks, offers assistance in finding peer helpers when required, and mediates communication on taskrelated topics.  When a worker runs into difficulty in carrying out a task, PHelpS provides a list of other workers who are ready, willing and able to help him or her.  The worker then selects a particular helper with PHelpS supporting the subsequent help interaction.  The PHelpS system acts as a facilitator to stimulate learning and collaboration, rather than as a directive agent imposing its perspectives on the workers.  In this way PHelpS facilitates the creation of extensive informal peer help networks, where workers help one another with tasks and opens up new research avenues for further exploration of AI-based computer-supported collaborative learning. 
Cooperative Multi-Sensor Video Surveillance| Abstract Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) and the David Sarnoff Research Center (Sarnoff) have begun a joint, integrated feasibility demonstration in the area of Video Surveillance and Monitoring (VSAM).  The objective is to develop a cooperative, multi-sensor video surveillance system that provides continuous coverage over large battlefield areas.  Image Understanding (IU) technologies will be developed to: 1) coordinate multiple sensors to seamlessly track moving targets over an extended area, 2) actively control sensor and platform parameters to track multiple moving targets, 3) integrate multisensor output with collateral data to maintain an evolving, scene-level representation of all targets and platforms, and 4) monitor the scene for unusual "trigger" events and activities.  These technologies will be integrated into an experimental testbed to support evaluation, data collection, and demonstration of other VSAM technologies developed within the DARPA IU community. 
Site Model Acquisition and Extension from Aerial Images| Abstract A system has been developed to acquire, extend and refine 3D geometric site models from aerial imagery.  This system hypothesize potential building roofs in an image, automatically locates supporting geometric evidence in other images, and determines the precise shape and position of the new buildings via multiimage triangulation.  Model-to-image registration techniques are applied to align new, incoming images against the site model.  Model extension and refinement procedures are then performed to add previously unseen buildings and to improve the geometric accuracy of the existing 3D building models. 
A system for video surveillance and monitoring|
The Schema System|
An Artificial Neural Network Representation for Artificial Organisms|
Analogical user modelling: A case study in individualized information filtering|
Bank differences in the coordination of regulatory capital, earnings, and taxes|
Factorization for hard exclusive electroproduction of meson in QCD|
Bayesian Color Constancy for Outdoor Object Recognition|
Marks & Spencer expands RFID retail trial|
Advances in Cooperative Mulit-Sensor Video Survelliance", 1998 Image Understanding Workshop,|
Predicting cerebral blood flow response to orthostatic stress from resting dynamics: Effects of healthy aging,|
An efficient and accurate method for computing vanishing points|
Three-Dimensional Scene Flow|
Vanishing point calculation as a statistical inference on the unit sphere|
Model matching and extension for automated 3D modeling|
Three-dimensional structure of a recombinant variant of human pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor (Kazal type)|
Three-dimensional structure of the complexes between bovine chymotrypsinogen A and two recombinant variants of human pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor (Kazal-type)|
3051 and erratum-ibid|
A modular network for legged locomotion|
Algorithms for cooperative multisensor surveillance|
A Computational Model for Repeated Pattern Perception Using Frieze and Wallpaper Groups|
Multi-Image Focus of Attention for Rapid Site Model Construction|
Controlling neuronal noise using chaos control|
Improving Objectivity and Scalability in Protein Crystallization: Integrating Image Analysis With Knowledge Discovery|
"Automatic classification of sub-microlitre protein-crystallization trials in 1536-well plates,|
Undocumented corner: The caveats of Pentium System Management Mode|
Tools and Experiments in the Knowledge-Directed Interpretation of Road Scenes",|
Belief Revision,|
A master-slave system to acquire biometric imagery of humans at distance|
Building qualitative models of thermodynamic processes|
Introduction to the Special Section on Video Surveillance|
Cooperative Miltisensor Video Surveillance,|
Robust Midsagittal Plane Extraction from Coarse, Pathological 3D Images|
Calibration of an Outdoor Active Camera System|
New RNA motifs suggest an expanded scope for riboswitches in bacterial genetic control|
Issues in the Development of a Blackboard-Based Schema System for Image Understanding,|
CMU advanced perception seminar syllabus,|
"Tringulation without correspondences,|
Skewed Symmetry Groups|
Supporting Peer Help and Collaboration in Distributed Workspace Environments,|
An active camera system for acquiring multi-view video,|
Solving Combinatorial Auctions with Temporal Constraints in Economic Agents|
A Computational Model for Periodic Pattern Perception Based on Frieze and Wallpaper Groups|
Inside the Pentium II math bug|
ERRATUM-ibid|
A system for video surveillance and monitoring: Vsam final report| technical report CMU-. 
Bidtree Ordering in IDA* Combinatorial Auction Winner-Determination with Side Constraints|
Performance of winner determination search in combinatorial auctions with time constraints|
Determining Correspondences and Rigid Motion of 3-D Point Sets with Missing Data|
Gait Shape Estimation for Identification|
A Superscalar Architecture to Exploit Instruction Level Parallelism,|
On-line selection of discriminitive tracking features|
Control of chaos in excitable physiological systems: a geometric analysis,|
Controlling nonchaotic neuronal noise using chaos control techniques,|
Automatic Bilateral Symmetry (Midsagittal) Plane Extraction from Pathological 3D Neuroradiological Images|
"Single Plane Model Extension using Projective Transformations,|
Model Acquisition using Stochastic Projective Geometry|
Representations for artificial organisms|
CM++: A C++ Interface to the Connection Machine,|
Blood pressure, stroke, and coronary heart disease| Part 1, prolonged differences in blood pressure: prospective observational studies corrected for the regression dilution bias. 
The DARPA SCENDER system: Automatic site modeling from multiple aerial images," computer Vision and Image Understanding Journal, special issue on Building Detection and Reconstruction|
A geometrical sum rule for two-dimensional fluid correlation functions,"|
The Schema System", International Journal of Computer Vision,|
"The Failure-Experience Matrix -- a Useful Design Tool",|
The job-search problem with competition: an evolutionary stable dynamic strategyAdvances in Applied Probability vol|
Photoelectron yield and photon reflectivity from candidate LHC vacuum chamber materials with implications to the vacuum chamber design,|
Gait Sequence Analysis Using Frieze Patterns|
IEEE Transaction on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence:|
Automatic Construction of Three-Dimensional Models of Buildings,|
Robotics Institute Carnegie Mellon University: Multicamera Tracking and Visualisation for Surveillance and Sports,|
calibrated RNA samples, reference datasets, and QC metrics and thresholds|
Hitachi unveils integrated RFID tag,|
