2004 Command and Control Research and Technology Symposium| ABSTRACT Warfighter operational requirements for Joint tactical battle management and command and control (BM/C2) now reflect warfare capabilities required of networked interoperable systems, as opposed to the previous single-system orientation.  However, network-centric warfare won't realize full combat potential until the Department of Defense (DoD) acquisition processes are geared toward developing system-of-systems materiel responses.  DoD acquisition processes for solving interoperability must be transformed from a system-system interface basis, which leads to an unworkably complex N 2 problem, to unprecedented (for DoD) holistic networked-system approaches.  Initial such thrusts at the DoD-enterprise level, e. 
Developmental Constraints Aid the Acquisition of Binocular Disparity Sensitivities| Abstract This article considers the hypothesis that systems learning aspects of visual perception may benefit from the use of suitably designed developmental progressions during training.  We report the results of simulations in which four different models were trained to detect binocular disparities in pairs of visual images.  Three of the models were \developmental models" in the sense that the nature of their visual input changed during the course of training.  These models received a relatively impoverished visual input early in training, and the quality of this input improved as training progressed.  One model used a coarse-scale-to-multiscale developmental progression, another model used a #ne-scale-to-multiscale progression, and the third model used a random progression.  The final model was non-developmental in the sense that the nature of its input remained the same throughout the training period.  The simulation results show that the two developmental models whose progressions were organized by spatial frequency content consistently outperformed the non-developmental and random developmental models.  We speculate that the superior performance of these two models is due to two important features of their developmental progressions: (1) these models were exposed to visual inputs at a single scale early in training, and (2) the spatial scale of their inputs progressed in an orderly fashion from one scale to a neighboring scale during training.  Simulation results consistent with these speculations are presented.  We conclude that suitably designed developmental sequences can be useful to systems learning to detect binocular disparities.  The idea that visual development can aid visual learning is a viable hypothesis in need of future study. 
Rapid Communication Depth-dependent blur adaptation| Abstract Variations in blur are present in retinal images of scenes containing objects at multiple depth planes.  Here we examine whether neural representations of image blur can be recalibrated as a function of depth.  Participants were exposed to textured images whose blur changed with depth in a novel manner.  For one group of participants, image blur increased as the images moved closer; for the other group, blur increased as the images moved away.  A comparison of post-test versus pre-test performances on a blur-matching task at near and far test positions revealed that both groups of participants showed significant experience-dependent recalibration of the relationship between depth and blur.  These results demonstrate that blur adaptation is conditioned by 3D viewing contexts.  # 2003 Elsevier Ltd.  All rights reserved. 
Depth-dependent contrast gain-control| Abstract Contrast adaptation that was limited to a small region of the peripheral retina was induced as observers viewed a multiple depthplane textured surface.  The small region undergoing contrast adaptation was present only in one depth-plane to determine whether contrast gain-control is depth-dependent.  After adaptation, observers performed a contrast-matching task in both the adapted and a non-adapted depth-plane to measure the magnitude and spatial specificity of contrast adaptation.  Results indicated that contrast adaptation was depth-dependent under full-cue (disparity, linear perspective, texture gradient) conditions; there was a highly significant change in contrast gain in the depth-plane of adaptation and no significant gain change in the unadapted depth-plane.  A second experiment showed that under some monocular viewing conditions a similar change in contrast gain was present in the adapted depth-plane despite the absence of disparity information for depth.  Two control experiments with no-depth displays showed that contrast adaptation can also be texture- and location-dependent, but the magnitude of these e. ects was significantly smaller than the depth-dependent e. ect.  These results demonstrate that mechanisms of contrast adaptation are conditioned by 3-D and 2-D viewing contexts. 
Experience-dependent visual cue recalibration based on discrepancies between visual and haptic percepts| Abstract We studied the hypothesis that observers can recalibrate their visual percepts when visual and haptic (touch) cues are discordant and the haptic information is judged to be reliable.  Using a novel visuo-haptic virtual reality environment, we conducted a set of experiments in which subjects interacted with scenes consisting of two fronto-parallel surfaces.  Subjects judged the distance between the two surfaces based on two perceptual cues: a visual stereo cue obtained when viewing the scene binocularly and a haptic cue obtained when subjects grasped the two surfaces between their thumb and index fingers.  Visual and haptic cues regarding the scene were manipulated independently so that they could either be consistent or inconsistent.  Experiment 1 explored the e3ect of visuohaptic inconsistencies on depth-from-stereo estimates.  Our findings suggest that when stereo and haptic cues are inconsistent, subjects recalibrate their interpretations of the visual stereo cue so that depth-from-stereo percepts are in greater agreement with depth-from-haptic percepts.  In Experiment 2 the visuo-haptic discrepancy took a di3erent form when the two surfaces were near the subject than when they were far from the subject.  The results indicate that subjects recalibrated their interpretations of the stereo cue in a context-sensitive manner that depended on viewing distance, thereby making them more consistent with depth-from-haptic estimates at all viewing distances.  Together these findings suggest that observers# visual and haptic percepts are tightly coupled in the sense that haptic percepts provide a standard to which visual percepts can be recalibrated when the visual percepts are deemed to be erroneous. 
Fast temporal dynamics of visual cue integration|
Interactions Between Development and Learning During the Acquisition of Binocular Disparity Sensitivities| Abstract This paper investigates the use of developmental progressions in the acquisition of binocular disparity sensitivity, In an earlier paper we presented results of simulations comparing a non-developmental neural network model and two developmental neural network models trained to detect binocular disparities and concluded that the developmental models consistently performed better[1].  Here we report the results of simulations on additional neural network models, compare them to the three original models and perform additional analysis.  We conclude that the benefits of development are not solely due to limiting the size of the input in early stages, and that in order for development to be helpful to the task of binocular disparity detection, the developmental progressions should be designed to take advantage of known simplifications. 
Bayesian Inference in Mixtures-of-Experts and Hierarchical Mixtures-of-Experts Models With an Application to Speech Recognition| Abstract Machine classification of acoustic waveforms as speech events is often difficult due to context-dependencies.  A vowel recognition task with multiple speakers is studied in this paper via the use of a class of modular and hierarchical systems referred to as mixtures-of-experts and hierarchical mixtures-of-experts models.  The statistical model underlying the systems is a mixture model in which both the mixture coefficients and the mixture components are generalized linear models.  A full Bayesian approach is used as a basis of inference and prediction.  Computations are performed using Markov chain Monte Carlo methods.  A key benefit of this approach is the ability to obtain a sample from the posterior distribution of any functional of the parameters of the given model.  In this way, more information is obtained than provided by a point estimate.  Also avoided is the need to rely on a normal approximation to the posterior as the basis of inference.  This is particularly important in cases where the posterior is skewed or multimodal.  Comparisons between a hierarchical mixtures-of-experts model and other pattern classification systems on the vowel recognition task are reported.  The results indicate that this model showed good classification performance, and also gave the additional benefit of providing for the opportunity to assess the degree of certainty of the model in its classification predictions. 
Increased rates of convergence through learning rate adaptation|
What determines visual cue reliability?|
Computational consequences of a bias toward short connections|
Computational studies of the development of functionally specialized neural modules|
Bayesian inference in mixtures-of-experts and hierarchical mixtures-of-experts architectures,|
in the Handbook of brain theory and neural networks (M|
A Bayesian approachtomodel selection in hierarchical mixtures-of-experts architectures|
Nature, nurture, and the development of functional specializations: a computational approach|
Optimal integration of texture and motion cues to depth|
for classifiction and probability estimation|
Bayesian Inference in Mixture-ofExperts and Hierarchical Mixture-of-Experts Architectures|
Comparing perceptual learning tasks: A review|
Digital Charge-Coupled Logic (DCCL),|
Increased rates of convergence through learning rate adaption|
The invisible workforce: How to align contract and temporary workers with core organizational goals|
Task decomposition through competition in a modular connectionist architecture|
Reducing Inventory Systems Costs by Using Robust Demand Estimators,|
Fast temproal dynamics of visual cue integration|
variables|
in preparation) Task decomposition through competition in a modular connectionist architecture|
Depthdependent blur adaptation|
Observers show differential sensitivity to changes in spatial scale and relative frequency in a complex grating discrimination task|
