Transformations of Gaussian Process Priors| Abstract Gaussian processes-prior systems generally consist of noisy measurements of samples of the putatively Gaussian process of interest, where the samples serve to constrain the posterior estimate.  Here we consider the case where the measurements are instead noisy weighted sums of samples.  This framework incorporates measurements of derivative information and of filtered versions of the process, thereby allowing GPs to perform sensor fusion and tomography, it allows certain group invariances (ie symmetries) to be weakly enforced, can be used to model heteroskedasticity in output variance, and under certain conditions it allows the dataset to be dramatically reduced in size.  The method is applied to a sparsely sampled image, where each sample is taken using a broad and non-monotonic point spread function. 
COMBINING CASE BASED REASONING WITH NEURAL NETWORKS| Abstract: This paper presents a neural network based technique for mapping problem situations to problem solutions for Case-Based Reasoning (CBR) applications.  Both neural networks and CBR are instance-based learning techniques, although neural nets work with numerical data and CBR systems work with symbolic data.  This paper discusseshow the application scope of both paradigms could beenhancedby the use of hybrid concepts.  Tomake the use of neural networks possible, the problem's situation and solution features are transformed into continuous features, using techniques similar to CBR's definition of similarity metrics.  Radial Basis Function (RBF) neural nets are used to create a multivariable, continuous input-output mapping.  As the mapping is continuous, this technique also provides generalisation between cases, replacing the domain specific solution adaptation techniques required by conventional CBR.  This continuous representation also allows, as in fuzzy logic, an associated membership measure to be output with each symbolic feature, aiding the prioritisation of various possible solutions.  A further advantage is that, as the RBF neurons are only active in a limited area of the input space, the solution can be accompanied by local estimates of accuracy, based on the sufficiency of the cases present in that area as well as the results measured during testing.  We describe how the application of this technique could be of benefit to the real world problem of sales advisory systems, among others. 
Gaussian Process Priors with Uncertain Inputs - Application to Multiple-Step Ahead Time Series Forecasting| Abstract We consider the problem of multi-step ahead prediction in time series analysis using the non-parametric Gaussian process model.  k-step ahead forecasting of a discrete-time non-linear dynamic system can be performed by doing repeated one-step ahead predictions.  For a state-space model of the form y t = f(y
Gaussian Process Model Based Predictive Control| Abstract--- Gaussian process models provide a probabilistic non-parametric modelling approach for black-box identification of non-linear dynamic systems.  The Gaussian processes can highlight areas of the input space where prediction quality is poor, due to the lack of data or its complexity, by indicating the higher variance around the predicted mean.  Gaussian process models contain noticeably less coefficients to be optimised.  This paper illustrates possible application of Gaussian process models within model-based predictive control.  The extra information provided within Gaussian process model is used in predictive control, where optimisation of control signal takes the variance information into account.  The predictive control principle is demonstrated on control of pH process benchmark. 
Variability in Wrist-Tilt Accelerometer Based Gesture Interfaces| Abstract.  In this paper we describe a study that examines human performance in a tilt control targeting task on a PDA.  A three-degree of freedom accelerometer attached to the base of the PDA allows users to navigate to the targets by tilting their wrist in different directions.  Post hoc analysis of performance data has been used to classify the ease of targeting and variability of movement in the different directions.  The results show that there is an increase in
Audio feedback for gesture recognition| Abstract A general framework for producing formative audio feedback for gesture recognition is presented, including the dynamic and semantic aspects of gestures.  The beliefs states are probability density functions conditioned on the trajectories of the observed variables.  We describe example implementations of gesture recognition based on Hidden Markov Models and a dynamic programming recognition algorithm.  Granular synthesis is used to present the audio display of the changing probabilities and observed states. 
Granular Synthesis for Display of Time-Varying Probability Densities| Abstract--- We present a method for displaying time-varying probabilistic information to users using an asynchronous granular synthesis technique.  We extend the basic synthesis technique to include distribution over waveform source, spatial position, pitch and time inside waveforms.  To enhance the synthesis in interactive contexts, we "quicken" the display by integrating predictions of user behaviour into the sonification.  This includes summing the derivatives of the distribution during exploration of static densities, and using Monte-Carlo sampling to predict future user states in nonlinear dynamic systems.  These techniques can be used to improve user performance in continuous control systems and in the interactive exploration of high dimensional spaces.  This technique provides feedback from users potential goals, and their progress toward achieving them; modulating the feedback with quickening can help shape the users actions toward achieving these goals.  We have applied these techniques to a simple nonlinear control problem as well as to the sonification of on-line probabilistic gesture recognition.  We are applying these displays to mobile, gestural interfaces, where visual display is often impractical.  The granular synthesis approach is theoretically elegant and easily applied in contexts where dynamic probabilistic displays are required. 
ON TRANSIENT DYNAMICS, OFF-EQUILIBRIUM BEHAVIOUR AND IDENTIFICATION IN BLENDED MULTIPLE MODEL STRUCTURES| Abstract The use of multiple-model techniques has been reported in a variety of control and signal processing applications.  However, several theoretical analyses have recently appeared which outline fundamental limitations of these techniques in certain domains of application.  In particular, the identifiability and interpretability of local linear model parameters in transient operating regimes is shown to be limited.  Some modifications to the basic paradigm are suggested which overcome a number of the problems.  As an alternative to parametric identification of blended multiple model structures, nonparametric Gaussian process priors are suggested as a means of providing local models, and the results compared to a multiple-model approach in a Monte Carlo simulation on some simulated vehicle dynamics data.  1 The Multiple-Model Framework The past few years have shown an increase in the use of local model representations of non-linear dynamic systems (see (Johansen and Murray-Smith 1997) for a review).  This basic structure includes a number of approaches: Tagaki--Sugeno fuzzy systems (Takagi and Sugeno 1985), local model networks, gain-scheduled control (Leith and Leithead 1999), and statistical mixture models, among them.  The model parameters are obtained from prior knowledge, linearisations of a physical model or identified from measured data.  Advantages of this approach are purported to be its simplicity, the insight into global dynamics obtained from the local models, and the ease with which global control laws can be constructed from local designs.  Consider the nonlinear system x = f (x; u).  By a blended local model structure we understand a dynamic model of the form x = Nm X i=1 ae i (x; u)f i (x; u); (1) where state x 2 IR N , input u 2 IR P , the model f
Self-tuning Control of Non-linear Systems Using Gaussian Process Prior Models| Abstract Gaussian Process prior models, as used in Bayesian non-parametric statistical models methodology are applied to implement a nonlinear adaptive control law.  The expected value of a quadratic cost function is minimised, without ignoring the variance of the model predictions.  This leads to implicit regularisation of the control signal (caution) in areas of high uncertainty.  As a consequence, the controller has dual features, since it both tracks a reference signal and learns a model of the system from observed responses.  The general method and its main features are illustrated on simulation examples. 
Supporting Early Intervention Programmes for specialneeds children with personal digital assistants| Abstract We describe flexible logging software designed for use in behavioural therapy programmes for special needs children.  This software runs on a handheld computer or Personal Digital Assistant (PDA) and is flexible and easy to use, so that parents or teachers can customise the logger to the needs of individual children and programmes.  The software is intended to allow parents or teachers to record high quality behavioural data with minimal intrusion into the teaching and interaction with children.  We also give an example of how PDAs can be used directly as a teaching tool, with a program which allows parents to design a speech/picture association game for their own child. 
Tilt-Based Automatic Zooming and Scaling in Mobile Devices - A State-Space Implementation| Abstract.  We provide a dynamic systems interpretation of the coupling of internal states involved in speed-dependent automatic zooming, and test our implementation on a text browser on a Pocket PC instrumented with an accelerometer.  The dynamic systems approach to the design of such continuous interaction interfaces allows the incorporation of analytical tools and constructive techniques from manual and automatic control theory.  We illustrate experimental results of the use of the proposed coupled navigation and zooming interface with classical scroll and zoom alternatives. 
Muscle Tremor as an Input Mechanism| ABSTRACT We present the use of human physiological tremor, detected by a linear accelerometer, as a novel form of input for mobile devices.  This allows the device to be aware if it is being held in a human hand, and in which posture.  It also has security applications, as human tremor characteristics are individual.  We describe two simple demonstrations of the use of tremor.  One demo uses isometric muscle tremor as a proxy for a pressure sensor, and allows a user to `pump up' an onscreen balloon.  The second demo simulates a mobile phone application, using muscle tremor to enable the device to be aware if it is currently held by human hand, and to stop ringing when picked up. 
Derivative Observations in Gaussian Process Models of Dynamic Systems| Abstract Gaussian processes provide an approach to nonparametric modelling which allows a straightforward combination of function and derivative observations in an empirical model.  This is of particular importance in identification of nonlinear dynamic systems from experimental data.  1) It allows us to combine derivative information, and associated uncertainty with normal function observations into the learning and inference process.  This derivative information can be in the form of priors specified by an expert or identified from perturbation data close to equilibrium.  2) It allows a seamless fusion of multiple local linear models in a consistent manner, inferring consistent models and ensuring that integrability constraints are met.  3) It improves dramatically the computational efficiency of Gaussian process models for dynamic system identification, by summarising large quantities of near-equilibrium data by a handful of linearisations, reducing the training set size -- traditionally a problem for Gaussian process models. 
Nonlinear modelling of FES-supported standing up in paraplegia for selection of feedback sensors| Abstract This paper presents analysis of the standing--up manoeuvre in paraplegia considering the body supportive forces as a potential feedback source in FES-assisted standing--up.  The analysis investigates the significance of particular feedback signals to the human body centre-of-mass (COM) trajectory reconstruction.  Two nonlinear empirical modeling methods are implemented (Gaussian process priors (GP) and multi-layer perceptron neural networks (ANN)) and their performance compared regarding the different amount of input information required.  The GP provided a better fit to the data, at higher computational cost.  The main objective of the study was to compare the different sensory configurations, trading off modelling performance for variables chosen, which allow ease-ofuse in everyday application.  In this manner, the results provide guidance for the design of user-friendly sensory-supported FES systems providing standing and standing-up in spinal cord injured persons. 
Dynamics and probabilistic text entry| Abstract We present a gestural interface for entering text on a mobile device via continuous
Rehabilitation Robot Cell for Multimodal Standing-Up Motion Augmentation| Abstract--- The paper presents a robot cell for multimodal standing-up motion augmentation.  The robot cell is aimed at augmenting the standing-up capabilities of impaired or paraplegic subjects.  The setup incorporates the rehabilitation robot device, functional electrical stimulation system, measurement instrumentation and cognitive feedback system.  For controlling the standing-up process a novel approach was developed integrating the voluntary activity of a person in the control scheme of the rehabilitation robot.  The simulation results demonstrate the possibility of "patient-driven" robotassisted standing-up training.  Moreover, to extend the system capabilities, the audio cognitive feedback is aimed to guide the subject throughout rising.  For the feedback generation a granular synthesis method is utilized displaying highdimensional, dynamic data.  The principle of operation and example sonification in standing-up are presented.  In this manner, by integrating the cognitive feedback and "patientdriven" actuation systems, an effective motion augmentation system is proposed in which the motion coordination is under the voluntary control of the user. 
Pointing without a pointer| ABSTRACT We present a method for performing selection tasks based on continuous control of multiple, competing agents who try to determine the user's intentions from their control behaviour without requiring an explicit pointer.  The entropy in the selection process decreases in a continuous fashion -- we provide experimental evidence of selection from 500 initial targets.  The approach allows adaptation over time to best make use of the multimodal communication channel between the human and the system.  This general approach is well suited to mobile and wearable applications, shared displays and security conscious settings. 
Gaussian Process priors with Uncertain Inputs: Multiple-Step-Ahead Prediction| Abstract We consider the problem of multi-step ahead prediction in time series analysis using the non-parametric Gaussian process model.  k-step ahead forecasting of a discrete-time nonlinear dynamic system can be performed by doing repeated one-step ahead predictions.  For a state-space model of the form y t = f(y t- 1 ,. . . ,y t- L ), the prediction of y at time t + k is based on the estimates ^ y t+k - 1 ,. . . ,^y t+k - L of the previous outputs.  We show how, using an analytical Gaussian approximation, we can formally incorporate the uncertainty about intermediate regressor values, thus updating the uncertainty on the current prediction.  In this framework, the problem is that of predicting responses at a random input and we compare the Gaussian approximation to the Monte-Carlo numerical approximation of the predictive distribution.  The approach is illustrated on a simulated non-linear dynamic example, as well as on a simple one-dimensional static example. 
ADAPTIVE, CAUTIOUS, PREDICTIVE CONTROL WITH GAUSSIAN PROCESS PRIORS| to implement a nonlinear adaptive control law.  Predictions, including propagation of the state uncertainty are made over a k-step horizon.  The expected value of a quadratic cost function is minimised, over this prediction horizon, without ignoring the variance of the model predictions.  The general method and its main features are illustrated on a simulation example. 
Local Model Networks and Local Learning| Abstract: The Local Model Networks (networks composed of locally accurate models, where the output is interpolated by smooth locally active basis functions) described in this paper provide a solid basis for practical modelling tasks. 
Rhythmic Interaction with a Mobile Device| ABSTRACT We describe a rhythmic interaction mechanism for mobile devices.  A PocketPC with a three degree of freedom linear acceleration meter is used as the experimental platform for data acquisition.  Dynamic Movement Primitives are used to learn the limit cycle behavior associated with the rhythmic gestures.  We outline the open technical and user experience challenges in the development of usable rhythmic interfaces. 
Got rhythm? Haptic-only lead and follow dancing| Abstract.  This paper describes the design and implementation of a lead and follow dance to be performed with a human follower and PHANToM leader, or executed by two humans via two PHANToMs, reciprocally linked.  In some contexts, such as teaching calligraphic character writing, haptic-only communication of information has demonstrated limited eectiveness.  This project was inspired by the observation that experienced partner dance followers can easily decipher haptic-only cues, perhaps because of the structure of dancing, wherein a set of possible moves is known and changes between moves happen at times signalled by the music.  This work is a demonstration of dancing, meaning coordination of a randomly sequenced set of known movements to a musical soundtrack, with a PHANToM as a leader, and of a human leader and follower dancing via a dual PHANToM teleoperation system.  1 Background In numerous studies, human haptic and proprioceptive senses have been shown to lack the precision of visual perception.  For example, just noticeable dierences (JND's) for force perception are larger than those for visual perception [1].  Previous work on haptic interfaces between humans found evidence that haptic-only cooperation was inferior to visual-only cooperation and found no evidence that hapticplus-visual cooperation was superior to visual-only cooperation when the item to be communicated was an unknown Japanese calligraphic character [2].  However, experienced swing dance followers have demonstrated in our lab the ability to correctly identify moves while deprived by blindfold of visual information.  The distinction between these tasks is likely the highly structured nature of swing dance.  In social improvised swing dance, the leader choreographs for himself and his follower in realtime.  All swing dancers know a set of stereotypical eight-count moves.  The leader, then, needs only to communicate the selection of move from this finite alphabet, not the requested trajectory in its full detail.  To demonstrate haptic-only communication in a simpler setting than that of full-body motion, we designed a dance to be performed with one hand and arm using a PHANToM haptic device from Sensable Technologies.  We implemented a leader-follower dance to be executed between a human and a PHANToM device, or between two humans mediated by two PHANToM devices.  The primary goal is to investigate human-human and computer-human interaction strategies in the specific context of improvised dance, hence the system was designed to be faithful to the dancing model even at the risk of less transparent results.  Other examples of haptic motion coordination between robots and humans include a walking robot that can follow a person who takes its hand to lead it [3], and Hale's "sticky hands" tai chi demonstration between an anthropomorphic robot and a human [4].  In the latter, the human and robot did not have clearly defined roles as leader and follower, but the robot learned and categorized the human's movement patterns in order to generate movements.  2 Dancing PHANToM System A PHANToM is a programmable 3-D haptic device which presents a force at its stylus
Dynamic Primitives for Gestural Interaction| classify the gestures needed for the Body Space project, running on a PocketPC with a 3-degree of freedom linear accelerometer. 
MODELLING HUMAN CONTROL BEHAVIOUR WITH CONTEXT-DEPENDENT MARKOV-SWITCHING MULTIPLE MODELS| Abstract: A probabilistic model of human control behaviour is described.  It assumes that human behaviour can be represented by switching among a number of relatively simple behaviours.  The model structure is closely related to the Hidden Markov Models (HMMs) commonly used for speech recognition.  An HMM with context-dependent transition functions switching between linear control laws is identified from experimental data.  The applicability of the approach is demonstrated in a pitch control task for a simplified helicopter model. 
Learning a Gaussian Process Model with Uncertain Inputs| Abstract Learning with uncertain inputs is well-known to be a difficult task.  In order to achieve this analytically using a Gaussian Process prior model, we expand the original process around the input mean (Delta method), assuming the random input is normally distributed.  We thus derive a new process whose covariance function accounts for the randomness of the input.  We illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed model on a simple static simulation example and on the modelling of a nonlinear noisy time-series. 
Extending the functional equivalence of radial basis function networks and fuzzy inference systems|
Robot Docking Using Mixtures of Gaussians|
