Kerneltron: Support Vector `Machine' in Silicon| Abstract---Detection of complex objects in streaming video poses two fundamental challenges: training from sparse data with proper generalization across variations in the object class and the environment; and the computational power required of the trained classifier running real-time.  The Kerneltron supports the generalization performance of a support vector machine (SVM) and offers the bandwidth and efficiency of a massively parallel architecture.  The mixed-signal very large-scale integration (VLSI) processor is dedicated to the most intensive of SVM operations: evaluating a kernel over large numbers of vectors in high dimensions.  At the core of the Kerneltron is an internally analog, fine-grain computational array performing externally digital inner-products between an incoming vector and each of the stored support vectors.  The three-transistor unit cell in the array combines single-bit dynamic storage, binary multiplication, and zero-latency analog accumulation.  Precise digital outputs are obtained through oversampled quantization of the analog array outputs combined with bit-serial unary encoding of the digital inputs.  The 256 input, 128 vector Kerneltron measures 3mm 3mmin0. 5 m CMOS, delivers 6. 5 GMACS throughput at 5. 9 mW power, and attains 8-bit output resolution. 
Stochastic Mixed-Signal VLSI Architecture for High-Dimensional Kernel Machines| Abstract A mixed-signal paradigm is presented for high-resolution parallel innerproduct computation in very high dimensions, suitable for efficient implementation of kernels in image processing.  At the core of the externally digital architecture is a high-density, low-power analog array performing binary-binary partial matrix-vector multiplication.  Full digital resolution is maintained even with low-resolution analog-to-digital conversion, owing to random statistics in the analog summation of binary products.  A random modulation scheme produces near-Bernoulli statistics even for highly correlated inputs.  The approach is validated with real image data, and with experimental results from a CID/DRAM analog array prototype in 0. 5 m CMOS. 
ALGORITHMIC PARTIAL ANALOG-TO-DIGITAL CONVERSION IN MIXED-SIGNAL ARRAY PROCESSORS| ABSTRACT We present an algorithmic analog-to-digital converter (ADC) architecture for large-scale parallel quantization of internally analog variables in externally digital array processors.  The converter quantizes and accumulates a binary weighted sequence of partial binary-binary matrix-vector products computed on the analog array, under presentation of bit-serial inputs in descending binary order.  The architecture combines algorithmic conversion of the residue, as in a standard algorithmic ADC, with synchronous accumulation of the partial products from the array.  In conjunction with row-parallel digital storage of matrix elements in the array, two pipelined architectures are presented to accumulate partial products with common binary weight across rows: row-parallel ADC with digital post-accumulation, and row-cumulative ADC with analog pre-accumulation.  Simulation results are presented to quantify the trade-off in precision and area for full-parallel flash, and row-parallel and row-cumulative partial algorithmic, analogto-digital conversion on the array. 
Silicon Support Vector Machine with On-Line Learning| Training of support vector machines (SVMs) amounts to solving a quadratic programming problem over the training data.  We present a simple on-line SVM training algorithm of complexity approximately linear in the number of training vectors, and linear in the number of support vectors.  The algorithm implements an on-line variant of sequential minimum optimization (SMO) that avoids the need for adjusting select pairs of training coefficients by adjusting the bias term along with the coefficient of the currently presented training vector.  The coefficient assignment is a function of the margin returned by the SVM classifier prior to assignment, subject to inequality constraints.  The training scheme lends efficiently to dedicated SVM hardware for real-time pattern recognition, implemented using resources already provided for run-time operation.  Performance gains are illustrated using the Kerneltron, a massively parallel mixed-signal VLSI processor for kernel-based real-time video recognition. 
Dynamic MOS Sigmoid Array Folding Analog-to-Digital Conversion| Abstract---A dynamic, saturating difference circuit for large-scale parallel folding analog-to-digital conversion is presented.  The circuit comprises a subthreshold nMOS transistor source-coupled to a capacitor, implementing a log-domain integrator.  The output current is a logistic sigmoidal function of the change in voltage on the gate.  Offset and gain of the differential sigmoid are controlled by timing of global clock signals and are independent of transistor mismatch.  Folding operation for analog-to-digital conversion is obtained by differentially combining and integrating currents from a bank of sigmoid units.  A 128-channel parallel bank of 4-bit Gray-code folding analog-to-digital converters measures 0. 75 mm 2 mm in 0. 5 m CMOS and delivers 768 Msps at 82-mW power dissipation. 
Investigation on using Kernels with Q-learning for gait adaptation on visually guided walking robots| Abstract.  In this work we apply a reinforcement learning algorithm (Q-learning) to a simulated walking robot to "teach" it to step over hurdle-type obstacles.  Two ways to achieve this are described in detail.  The first method uses a gait model-based approach; the second explores the state-action space thoroughly by using a non-zero probability of a random transition.  Finally we use a kernel (radial basis) function to speed up the learning process. 
CHARGE-BASED MOS CORRELATED DOUBLE SAMPLING COMPARATOR AND FOLDING CIRCUIT| ABSTRACT A novel charge-based comparator and folding circuit are presented.  Correlated double sampling comparison is performed using a
INTEGRATED MULTI-ELECTRODE FLUIDIC NITRIC-OXIDE SENSOR AND VLSI POTENTIOSTAT ARRAY| ABSTRACT Nitric Oxide (NO) serves as an important intercellular messenger in the human body, and is mechanistically involved in vascular disease, stroke, chronic hear failure, and epilepsy.  We present a multi-electrode NO measurement sensor with integrated microfluidics.  An array of carbon-based electrodes detect the spatial and temporal diffusion profile of NO in a PDMS laminar fluidic channel.  The array interfaces to a multichannel potentiostatic VLSI system recording the amperometric output in real time, with five orders of magnitude in dynamic range over four scales down to hundreds of picoamperes.  The integrated sensor-fluidic-VLSI system is expected to serve as a powerful tool to study the diffusion mechanism of NO under different fluid flow paradigms. 
Charge-Mode Parallel Architecture for Matrix-Vector Multiplication,|
Massively Parallel Mixed-Signal VLSI Kernel Machines,|
"VLSI Multi-Channel Track-and-Hold Potentiostat,|
A 5|9mW 6. 5GMACS CID/DRAM Array Processor,. 
Massively Parallel Inner-Product Array Processor,|
