Fundamental Capacity of MIMO Channels| Abstract We provide an overview of the extensive recent results on the Shannon capacity of single-user and multiuser multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) channels.  Although enormous capacity gains have been predicted for such channels, these predictions are based on somewhat unrealistic assumptions about the underlying time-varying channel model and how well it can be tracked at the receiver as well as at the transmitter.  More realistic assumptions can dramatically impact the potential capacity gains of MIMO techniques.  For time-varying MIMO channels there are multiple Shannon-theoretic capacity definitions and, for each definition, different correlation models and channel side information assumptions that we consider.  We first provide a comprehensive summary of ergodic and outage capacity results for single-user MIMO channels.  These results indicate that the capacity gain obtained from multiple antennas heavily depends on the amount of channel knowledge at either the receiver or transmitter, the channel SNR, and the correlation between the channel gains on each antenna element.  We then focus attention on the capacity regions for MIMO broadcast and multiple access channels.  In contrast to single-user MIMO channels, capacity results for these multiuser MIMO channels are quite difficult to obtain, even for constant channels.  We summarize capacity results for the MIMO broadcast and multiple access channel for channels that are either constant or fading with perfect instantaneous knowledge of the antenna gains at both transmitter(s) and receiver(s).  We also show that the MIMO multiple access and broadcast capacity regions are intimately related via a duality transformation.  This transformation is not only useful for proving capacity theorems; it also facilitates finding the optimal transmission strategy of the nonconvex MIMO broadcast channel using convex optimization techniques applied to the dual MIMO multiple access channel.  Last we discuss capacity results for multicell MIMO channels with base station cooperation.  The base stations then act as a spatially diverse antenna array, and transmission strategies that exploit this structure exhibit significant capacity gains.  This section also provides a brief discussion of system level issues associated with MIMO cellular.  Open problems in this field abound and are discussed throughout the paper. 
considerably faster than competing methods such as Sequential Minimal Optimization or the Nearest Point Algorithm|
Binet-Cauchy Kernels| Abstract We propose a family of kernels based on the Binet-Cauchy theorem and its extension to Fredholm operators.  This includes as special cases all currently known kernels derived from the behavioral framework, diffusion processes, marginalized kernels, kernels on graphs, and the kernels on sets arising from the subspace angle approach.  Many of these kernels can be seen as the extrema of a new continuum of kernel functions, which leads to numerous new special cases.  As an application, we apply the new class of kernels to the problem of clustering of video sequences with encouraging results. 
Fast Kernels for String and Tree Matching| Abstract In this paper we present a new algorithm suitable for matching discrete objects such as strings and trees in linear time, thus obviating dynamic programming with quadratic time complexity.  Furthermore, prediction cost in many cases can be reduced to linear cost in the length of the sequence to be classified, regardless of the number of support vectors.  This improvement on the currently available algorithms makes string kernels a viable alternative for the practitioner. 
On the Capacity of Multiple Input Multiple Output Broadcast Channels| Abstract| We consider a two-user multiple input multiple output (MIMO) Gaussian broadcast channel (BC), where the transmitter has t transmit antennas and receivers have r1 ; r2 antennas respectively.  Since the MIMO broadcast channel is in general a non-degraded broadcast channel, its capacity region remains an unsolved problem.  In this paper, we establish a duality between what is termed the \dirty paper" region (or the Costa-Caire-Shamai-Yu achievable region) [5, 7] for the MIMO broadcast channel and the capacity region of the the MIMO multiple-access channel (MAC), which is easy to compute.  Using this duality, we greatly reduce the computation complexity required for obtaining the dirty paper achievable region for the MIMO BC.  The duality also enables us to translate previously known results for the MIMO MAC (like iterative water#lling [7]) to the MIMO BC.  We show that the dirty paper achievable region achieves the sum-rate capacity of the MIMO BC by establishing that the sum-rate point in this region equals an upper-bound on the sum rate of the MIMO BC. 
Invariances in Classification : an efficient SVM implementation| Abstract.  Often, in pattern recognition, complementary knowledge is available.  This could be useful to improve the performance of the recognition system.  Part of this knowledge regards invariances, in particular when treating images or voice data.  Many approaches have been proposed to incorporate invariances in pattern recognition systems.  Some of these approaches require a pre-processing phase, others integrate the invariances in the algorithms.  We present a unifying formulation of the problem of incorporating invariances into a pattern recognition classifier and we extend the SimpleSVM algorithm [Vishwanathan et al. , 2003] to handle invariances efficiently. 
Fast and Simple Toolbox for SVM| Abstract : If SVM (Support Vector Machines) is now considered as one of the
Personal communication to M| Halldorsson. 
An O(log # n) approximation algorithm for the asymmetric p-center problem|
Adaptive Wireless Information Systems|
New Results on Server Problems|
Randomized Online Graph Coloring|
New results on the server problem|
Randomized On-line Graph Coloring, InProc|
Kernels and dynamical systems|
Fast kernels on strings and trees|
Constructing Reliable Communication Networks of Small Weight Online|
An O(log* n) Approximation Algorithm for the Asymmetric p-Center Problem|
NP-completeness of undirected Grundy numbering and related problems, preprint,|
An approximation algorithm for finding a long path in Hamiltonian graphs|
Une bote outils rapide et simple pour les SVM|
SimpleSVM|
Cholesky factorization for rank-k modifications of diagonal matrices|
Kernel Methods: Fast Algorithms and Real Life Applications|
Depth-3 Arithmetic Circuits for S^2_n(X) and Extensions of the Graham-Pollack Theorem|
An Approximation Algorithm for the Asymmetric Travelling Salesman Problem with Distances One and Two|
Approximating MAX SNP Problems via Semi-Definite Programming|
Locality based graph coloring|
Randomized Online Graph Coloring (Preliminary Version)|
Une bote `a outils rapide et simple pour les svm|
Approximation Algorithms for the Achromatic Number|
