Percolation in dense storage arrays| are all too likely to make problems worse.  The alternative approach, letting units "fail in place", be removed from service and routed around, means that a data communications environment will evolve with an underlying regular structure but a very high density of missing pieces.  Some of the properties of this kind of network can be described within the existing paradigm of site or bond percolation on lattices, but other important questions have not been explored.  I will discuss 3D arrays of hundreds to thousands of storage servers (something which it is quite feasible to build in the next few years), and show that bandwidth, but not percolation fraction or shortest path lengths, is the critical factor a4ected by the "fail in place" disorder.  Redundancy strategies traditionally employed in storage systems may have to be revised.  Novel approaches to routing information among the servers have been developed to minimize the impact. 
Phase Transition and Search Cost in the 2+p--SAT Problem| Jerusalem We give analytical and numerical results concerning a new Satisfiability problem for random Boolean expressions.  Our model smoothly interpolates between the polynomial 2--SAT problem and the NP--complete 3--SAT problem.  Possible consequences on the relationship between the statistical mechanics characterization of phase transitions -- particularly smooth second order RSB and first order RSB transitions -- and the onset of exponential behaviour in search algorithms are identified. 
The Statistical Mechanics of k-Satisfaction| Abstract The satisfiability of random CNF formulae with precisely k variables per clause ("k-SAT") is a popular testbed for the performance of search algorithms.  Formulae have M clauses from N variables, randomly negated, keeping the ratio ff = M=N fixed.  For k = 2, this model has been proven to have a sharp threshold at ff = 1 between formulae which are almost aways satisfiable and formulae which are almost never satisfiable as N ! 1.  Computer experiments for k = 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, (carried out in collaboration with B.  Selman of ATT Bell Labs) show similar threshold behavior for each value of k.  Finite-size scaling, a theory of the critical point phenomena used in statistical physics, is shown to characterize the size dependence near the threshold.  Annealed and replica-based mean field theories give a good account of the results. 
Comparing Beliefs, Surveys and Random Walks| Abstract Survey propagation is a powerful technique from statistical physics that has been applied to solve the 3-SAT problem both in principle and in practice.  We give, using only probability arguments, a common derivation of survey propagation, belief propagation and several interesting hybrid methods.  We then present numerical experiments which use WSAT (a widely used random-walk based SAT solver) to quantify the complexity of the 3-SAT formulae as a function of their parameters, both as randomly generated and after simplification, guided by survey propagation.  Some properties of WSATwhich have not previously been reported make it an ideal tool for this purpose -- its mean cost is proportional to the number of variables in the formula (at a fixed ratio of clauses to variables) in the easy-SAT regime and slightly beyond, and its behavior in the hardSAT regime appears to reflect the underlying structure of the solution space that has been predicted by replica symmetry-breaking arguments.  An analysis of the tradeoffs between the various methods of search for satisfying assignments shows WSAT to be far more powerful than has been appreciated, and suggests some interesting new directions for practical algorithm development. 
Critical Behavior at the k-Satisfiability Threshold| Abstract The satisfiability of random Boolean formulae with precisely k variables per clause is a popular testbed for the performance of search algorithms in artificial intelligence and computer science.  For k = 2, formulae are almost aways satisfiable when the ratio of clauses to variables is less than 1; for ratios larger than 1, the formulae are almost never satisfiable.  We present data showing a similar threshold behavior for higher values of k.  We also show how finite-size scaling, a method from statistical physics, can be used to characterize size dependent effects near the threshold.  Finally, we commment on the relationship between thresholds and computational complexity. 
Passwords you'll never forget, but can't recall| ABSTRACT We identify a wide range of human memory phenomena as potential certificates of identity.  These "imprinting" behaviors are characterized by vast capacity for complex experiences, which can be recognized without apparent effort and yet cannot be transferred to others.  They are suitable for use in near zero-knowledge protocols, which minimize the amount of secret information exposed to prying eyes while identifying an individual.  We sketch several examples of such phenomena[1-3], and apply them in secure certification protocols.  This provides a novel approach to human-computer interfaces, and raises new questions in several classic areas of psychology. 
2+p-SAT: Relation of typical-case complexity to the nature of the phase transition|
Critical Behavior in the Computational Cost of Satisfiability Testing|
Optimization by Simmulated Annealing|
Analysis of Finite Length Annealing Schedules|
Performance-Temperature Optimization by Cooperatively Varying the Voltage and Frequency of a Circuit|
Statistical Mechanics and Disordered Systems|
Parallel Algorithms for Chip Placement by Simulated Annealing|
Critical behavior in the satisfiability of random Boolean expressions II: Computational cost of systematic search|
Optimization by Simulated|
"Optimistion by Simulated Annealing"|
Optimation by simulated annealing,|
Infinite-ranged models of spin-glasses",|
