Matching Shapes| Abstract We present a novel approach to measuring similarity between shapes and exploit it for object recognition.  In our framework, the measurement of similarity is preceded by (1) solving for correspondences between points on the two shapes, (2) using the correspondences to estimate an aligning transform.  In order to solve the correspondence problem, we attach a descriptor, the shape context, to each point.  The shape context at a reference point captures the distribution of the remaining points relative to it, thus offering a globally discriminative characterization.  Corresponding points on two similar shapes will have similar shape contexts, enabling us to solve for correspondences as an optimal assignment problem.  Given the point correspondences, we estimate the transformation that best aligns the two shapes; regularized thin--plate splines provide a flexible class of transformation maps for this purpose.  Dissimilarity between two shapes is computed as a sum of matching errors between corresponding points, together with a term measuring the magnitude of the aligning transform.  We treat recognition in a nearest-neighbor classification framework.  Results are presented for silhouettes, trademarks, handwritten digits and the COIL dataset. 
On Refractive Optical Flow| Abstract.  This paper presents a novel generalization of the optical flow equation to the case of refraction, and it describes a method for recovering the refractive structure of an object from a video sequence acquired as the background behind the refracting object moves.  By structure here we mean a representation of how the object warps and attenuates (or amplifies) the light passing through it.  We distinguish between the cases when the background motion is known and unknown.  We show that when the motion is unknown, the refractive structure can only be estimated up to a six-parameter family of solutions without additional sources of information.  Methods for solving for the refractive structure are described in both cases.  The performance of the algorithm is demonstrated on real data, and results of applying the estimated refractive structure to the task of environment matting and compositing are presented. 
Recognising Spoken Words from Lip Movement| Abstract The task of automatic lipreading requires two major preprocessing steps: localisation of the speaker's mouth and tracking of the salient lip movements.  For the first step, we employ a technique which we have termed Orientation Template Correlation (OTC) which searches for facial features based on their characteristic orientation maps.  In the spirit of Mase and Pentland [MP91], we have chosen to focus on the estimation of two measures in particular: vertical lip motion and mouth elongation.  For the purposes of estimating the vertical lip motion, we calculate the 1D optical flow along a vertical intensity profile through the middle of the mouth.  The mouth elongation, meanwhile, is estimated by means of a novel gradient-based filtering technique.  The descriptors extracted in these two steps are then encoded as 1D waveforms and sent to a classification stage based on principle components analysis.  The performance of the proposed system is demonstrated for the case of word recognition over a small database of spoken digits. 
Contour and Texture Analysis for Image Segmentation| Abstract.  This paper provides an algorithm for partitioning grayscale images into disjoint regions of coherent brightness and texture.  Natural images contain both textured and untextured regions, so the cues of contour and texture differences are exploited simultaneously.  Contours are treated in the intervening contour framework, while texture is analyzed using textons.  Each of these cues has a domain of applicability, so to facilitate cue combination we introduce a gating operator based on the texturedness of the neighborhood at a pixel.  Having obtained a local measure of how likely two nearby pixels are to belong to the same region, we use the spectral graph theoretic framework of normalized cuts to find partitions of the image into regions of coherent texture and brightness.  Experimental results on a wide range of images are shown. 
Shape Context: A New Descriptor for Shape Matching and Object Recognition| Abstract We develop an approach to object recognition based on matching shapes and using a resulting measure of similarity in a nearest neighbor classifier.  The key algorithmic problem here is that of finding pointwise correspondences between an image shape and a stored prototype shape.  We introduce a new shape descriptor, the shape context, which makes this possible, using a simple and robust algorithm.  The shape context at a point captures the distribution over relative positions of other shape points and thus summarizes global shape in a rich, local descriptor.  We demonstrate that shape contexts greatly simplify recovery of correspondences between points of two given shapes.  Once shapes are aligned, shape contexts are used to define a robust score for measuring shape similarity.  We have used this score in a nearest-neighbor classifier for recognition of hand written digits as well as 3D objects, using exactly the same distance function.  On the benchmark MNIST dataset of handwritten digits, this yields an error rate of 0. 63%, outperforming other published techniques. 
Structure from Periodic Motion| Applications of our proposed approach include 3D motion capture of natural and manmade periodic moving targets from monocular video sequences. 
Efficient Spatiotemporal Grouping Using the Nystro"m Method| Abstract Spectral graph theoretic methods have recently shown great promise for the problem of image segmentation, but due to the computational demands, applications of such methods to spatiotemporal data have been slow to appear.  For even a short video sequence, the set of all pairwise voxel similarities is a huge quantity of data: one second of a 256#384 sequence captured at 30Hz entails on the order of 10 13 pairwise similarities.  The contribution of this paper is a method that substantially reduces the computational requirements of grouping algorithms based on spectral partitioning, making it feasible to apply them to very large spatiotemporal grouping problems.  Our approach is based on a technique for the numerical solution of eigenfunction problems known as the Nystrom method.  This method allows extrapolation of the complete grouping solution using only a small number of "typical" samples.  In doing so, we successfully exploit the fact that there are far fewer coherent groups in an image sequence than pixels. 
Blobworld: A System for Region-Based Image Indexing and Retrieval| Abstract.  Blobworld is a system for image retrieval based on finding coherent image regions which roughly correspond to objects.  The image is segmented into regions by fitting a mixture of Gaussians to the pixel distribution in a joint color-texture-position feature space.  Each region ("blob") is then associated with color and texture descriptors.  Querying is based on the user specifying attributes of one or two regions of interest, rather than a description of the entire image.  In order to make largescale retrieval feasible, we index the blob descriptions using a tree.  Because indexing in the high-dimensional feature space is computationally prohibitive, we use a lower-rank approximation to the high-dimensional distance.  Experiments show encouraging results for both querying and indexing. 
Spectral Partitioning with Indefinite Kernels using the Nystrom Extension| Abstract.  Fowlkes et al.  [7] recently introduced an approximation to the Normalized Cut (NCut) grouping algorithm [18] based on random subsampling and the Nystrom extension.  As presented, their method is restricted to the case where W , the weighted adjacency matrix, is positive definite.  Although many common measures of image similarity (i. e.  kernels) are positive definite, a popular example being Gaussianweighted distance, there are important cases that are not.  In this work, we present a modification to Nystrom-NCut that does not require W to be positive definite.  The modification only affects the orthogonalization step, and in doing so it necessitates one additional O(m 3 ) operation, where m is the number of random samples used in the approximation.  As such it is of interest to know which kernels are positive definite and which are indefinite.  In addressing this issue, we further develop connections between NCut and related methods in the kernel machines literature.  We provide a proof that the Gaussian-weighted chi-squared kernel is positive definite, which has thus far only been conjectured.  We also explore the performance of the approximation algorithm on a variety of grouping cues including contour, color and texture. 
Blobworld: Image Segmentation Using Expectation-Maximization and Its Application to Image Querying| Abstract Retrieving images from large and varied collections using image content as a key is a challenging and important problem.  We present a new image representation which provides a transformation from the raw pixel data to a small set of image regions which are coherent in color and texture.  This "Blobworld" representation is created by clustering pixels in a joint color-texture-position feature space.  The segmentation algorithm is fully automatic and has been run on a collection of 10,000 natural images.  We describe a system that uses the Blobworld representation to retrieve images from this collection.  An important aspect of the system is that the user is allowed to view the internal representation of the submitted image and the query results.  Similar systems do not offer the user this view into the workings of the system; consequently, query results from these systems can be inexplicable, despite the availability of knobs for adjusting the similarity metrics.  By finding image regions which roughly correspond to objects, we allow querying at the level of objects rather than global image properties.  We present results indicating that querying for images using Blobworld produces higher precision than does querying using color and texture histograms of the entire image in cases where the image contains distinctive objects. 
Blobworld: A System for Region-Based Image Indexing and Retrieval (long version)| Abstract.  Blobworld is a system for image retrieval based on finding coherent image regions which roughly correspond to objects.  Each image is automatically segmented into regions ("blobs") with associated color and texture descriptors.  Querying is based on the attributes of one or two regions of interest, rather than a description of the entire image.  In order to make large-scale retrieval feasible, we index the blob descriptions using a tree.  Because indexing in the high-dimensional feature space is computationally prohibitive, we use a lower-rank approximation to the high-dimensional distance.  Experiments show good results for both querying and indexing. 
A Feature-Based Approach for Determining Dense Long Range Correspondences| Abstract.  Planar motion models can provide gross motion estimation and good segmentation for image pairs with large inter-frame disparity.  However, as the disparity becomes larger, the resulting dense correspondences will become increasingly inaccurate for everything but purely planar objects.  Flexible motion models, on the other hand, tend to overfit and thus make partitioning dicult.  For this reason, to achieve dense optical flow for image sequences with large inter-frame disparity, we propose a two stage process in which a planar model is used to get an approximation for the segmentation and the gross motion, and then a spline is used to refine the fit.  We present experimental results for dense optical flow estimation on image pairs with large inter-frame disparity that are beyond the scope of existing approaches. 
Unsupervised Color Decomposition Of Histologically Stained Tissue Samples| Abstract Accurate spectral decomposition is essential for the analysis and diagnosis of histologically stained tissue sections.  In this paper we present the first automated system for performing this decomposition.  We compare the performance of our system with ground truth data and report favorable results. 
Structured importance sampling of environment maps| Abstract We introduce structured importance sampling, a new technique for efficiently rendering scenes illuminated by distant natural illumination given in an environment map.  Our method handles occlusion, high-frequency lighting, and is significantly faster than alternative methods based on Monte Carlo sampling.  We achieve this speedup as a result of several ideas.  First, we present a new metric for stratifying and sampling an environment map taking into account both the illumination intensity as well as the expected variance due to occlusion within the scene.  We then present a novel hierarchical stratification algorithm that uses our metric to automatically stratify the environment map into regular strata.  This approach enables a number of rendering optimizations, such as pre-integrating the illumination within each stratum to eliminate noise at the cost of adding bias, and sorting the strata to reduce the number of sample rays.  We have rendered several scenes illuminated by natural lighting, and our results indicate that structured importance sampling is better than the best previous Monte Carlo techniques, requiring one to two orders of magnitude fewer samples for the same image quality. 
Normalized Cuts for Spinal MRI Segmentation| Abstract Segmentation of bony structures plays an important role in image guided surgery of the spine.  In this paper, we discuss a novel approach to the segmentation of vertebral bodies from 2D sagittal magnetic resonance images of the spine.  We have applied Normalized Cuts with the Nystrm approximation method to MR sagittal images of the spine taking windowed histograms of intensity or textons as the most promising features.  Both, Normalized cuts and the Nystrm approximation method have shown to be a powerful segmentation technique in different fields, but its usefulness in the medical imaging environment has not been shown yet.  Results in T1 high-resolution images of the spine have been encouraging to pursue further research in this difficult task. 
Shape contexts enable efficient retrieval of similar shapes| Abstract In this work we demonstrate that a recently introduced shape descriptor, the "shape context", can be used to quickly prune a search for similar shapes.  Our representation for a shape is a discrete set of n points sampled from its internal and external contours.  For each of these points, the shape context is a histogram of the relative positions of the n 1 remaining points.  We present two methods for rapid shape retrieval: one that does comparisons based on a small number of shape contexts and another that uses vector quantization in the space of shape contexts.  We verify the discriminative power of these methods with tests on the Columbia (COIL-100) 3D object database and the Snodgrass and Vanderwart line drawings.  The shape contextbased methods are shown to quickly produce an accurate shortlist of candidates suitable for a more exact matching engine in spite of pose variation and occlusion. 
Approximate Thin Plate Spline Mappings| Abstract.  The thin plate spline (TPS) is an effective tool for modeling coordinate transformations that has been applied successfully in several computer vision applications.  Unfortunately the solution requires the inversion of a p#p matrix, where p is the number of points in the data set, thus making it impractical for large scale applications.  As it turns out, a surprisingly good approximate solution is often possible using only a small subset of corresponding points.  We begin by discussing the obvious approach of using the subsampled set to estimate a transformation that is then applied to all the points, and we show the drawbacks of this method.  We then proceed to borrow a technique from the machine learning community for function approximation using radial basis functions (RBFs) and adapt it to the task at hand.  Using this method, we demonstrate a significant improvement over the naive method.  One drawback of this method, however, is that is does not allow for principal warp analysis, a technique for studying shape deformations introduced by Bookstein based on the eigenvectors of the p # p bending energy matrix.  To address this, we describe a third approximation method based on a classic matrix completion technique that allows for principal warp analysis as a by-product.  By means of experiments on real and synthetic data, we demonstrate the pros and cons of these different approximations so as to allow the reader to make an informed decision suited to his or her application. 
Region-Based Image Querying| Abstract Retrieving images from large and varied collections using image content as a key is a challenging and important problem.  In this paper we present a new image representation which provides a transformation from the raw pixel data to a small set of localized coherent regions in color and texture space.  This so-called "blobworld" representation is based on segmentation using the Expectation-Maximization algorithm on combined color and texture features.  The texture features we use for the segmentation arise from a new approach to texture description and scale selection.  We describe a system that uses the blobworld representation to retrieve images.  An important and unique aspect of the system is that, in the context of similarity-based querying, the user is allowed to view the internal representation of the submitted image and the query results.  Similar systems do not offer the user this view into the workings of the system; consequently, the outcome of many queries on these systems can be quite inexplicable, despite the availability of knobs for adjusting the similarity metric. 
What Went Where| Abstract We present a novel framework for motion segmentation that combines the concepts of layer-based methods and featurebased motion estimation.  We estimate the initial correspondences by comparing vectors of filter outputs at interest points, from which we compute candidate scene relations via random sampling of minimal subsets of correspondences.  We achieve a dense, piecewise smooth assignment of pixels to motion layers using a fast approximate graphcut algorithm based on a Markov random field formulation.  We demonstrate our approach on image pairs containing large inter-frame motion and partial occlusion.  The approach is efficient and it successfully segments scenes with inter-frame disparities previously beyond the scope of layerbased motion segmentation methods. 
ON THE NON-OPTIMALITY OF FOUR COLOR CODING OF IMAGE PARTITIONS| ABSTRACT Recent interest in region based image coding has given rise to graph coloring based partition encoding methods.  These methods are based on the four color theorem for planar graphs, and assume that a coloring for a graph with the minimum possible number of colors will result in the most compressible representation.  In this paper we show that this assumption is wrong.  We show that there exist graphs with chromatic number k that can be colored with k +1 colors resulting in bitmaps representing image partitions which are more compressible than the corresponding bitmaps generated using any k coloring of the same graph.  We conclude with some conjectures on optimal coloring of weighted graphs. 
CS280 Project, Spring 1996: Grouping of Color and Texture Features for Automated Image Annotation| Abstract We present a system for automated image annotation which is capable of detecting concepts such as sky, water and man-made structure in color images.  The processing of each image consists of a feature extraction stage and a grouping stage.  The ensuing concept-recognition is accomplished using a decision tree.  The pixel-level features consist of basic color and texture information.  The color information consists of hue, saturation and value (intensity) data and the texture information is obtained using the windowed-image second moment matrix.  The pixel-level features are quantized into one of a dozen or so bins based on an empirically determined perceptual partitioning of color/texture space.  The set of binary images associated with this quantization step are each grouped in parallel according to three different strategies.  The three grouping strategies seek to form regions according to (1) solid contiguity, (2) similarity in local orientation and (3) similarity in diffuseness.  As an example, one of the above mentioned binary images contains a 1 at each point where the original image contains a pixel with a bluish hue.  Should the input image contain clear blue sky above the horizon, the first grouping strategy would produce a large connected region in the binary image representing the pixels with a light-blue color.  The second grouping strategy would abort due to lack of orientation strength and the third strategy would fail since the sky-blob is not diffuse.  Each blob is represented by a feature vector containing its area, coordinates in the image, eccentricity, principle orientation, mean saturation and mean intensity, as well as by the color/texture bin and grouping strategy which gave rise to it.  These feature vectors are the input to the decision tree classifier.  The decision tree attempts to assign a label to each blob according to these characteristics. 
Segmentation by Example| Abstract We describe an algorithm for segmenting a novel image based on the available segmentation of another image.  The algorithm consists of two stages.  In the first stage we construct a locally connected graph to represent the novel image.  This graph is obtained by inheriting local connectivity between pixels based on the similarity of small neighborhoods in the two images.  In the second stage a graph parititioning algorithm is used to partition the graph and recover the resulting segments in the image.  We present experimental results on synthetic and real images and conclude with a discussion of the strengths and limitations of the method. 
Color- and Texture-Based Image Segmentation Using EM and Its Application to Content-Based Image Retrieval \Lambda| Abstract Retrieving images from large and varied collections using image content as a key is a challenging and important problem.  In this paper we present a new image representation which provides a transformation from the raw pixel data to a small set of image regions which are coherent in color and texture space.  This so-called "blobworld" representation is based on segmentation using the Expectation-Maximization algorithm on combined color and texture features.  The texture features we use for the segmentation arise from a new approach to texture description and scale selection.  We describe a system that uses the blobworld representation to retrieve images.  An important and unique aspect of the system is that, in the context of similarity-based querying, the user is allowed to view the internal representation of the submitted image and the query results.  Similar systems do not offer the user this view into the workings of the system; consequently, the outcome of many queries on these systems can be quite inexplicable, despite the availability of knobs for adjusting the similarity metric. 
Color- and Texture-based Image Segmentation Using the Expectation-Maximization Algorithm and its Application to Content-Based Image Retrieval|
Shape Matching and Object Recognition Using Shape Contexts|
Textons, Contours and Regions: Cue Integration in Image Segmentation|
Image and Video Segmentation: The Normalized Cut Framework|
Spectral Partitioning with Indefinite Kernels Using the Nyström Extension|
Finding Pictures of Objects in Large Collections of Images|
Finding Boundaries in Natural Images: A New Method Using Point Descriptors and Area Completion|
Recognition of images in large databases using color and texture|
Model-Based Halftoning for Color Image Segmentation|
