Feed-forward contour integration in primary visual cortex based on asynchronous spike propagation| Abstract Most current models of visual contour integration involve iterative lateral or feed-back interactions among neurons in V1 and V2.  However, some forms of visual processing are too fast for such time-consuming loops.  We propose a model avoiding iterative computation by using the fact that real neurons in the retina or LGN "re asynchronously, with the most activated "ring "rst.  Thus, early "ring V1 neurons can influence processing of their neighbors which are still integrating information from LGN.  By limiting the number of spikes to one per neuron, we show that contour integration can be obtained in a purely feed-forward way. 
Processing of one, two or four natural scenes in humans: the limits of parallelism| Abstract The visual processing of objects in natural scenes is fast and efficient, as indexed by behavioral and ERP data [Nature 381 (1996) 520].  The results from a recent experiment suggested that such fast routines work in parallel across the visual field when subjects were presented with two natural scenes simultaneously [Nature Neurosci.  5 (2002) 629].  In the present experiment, the visual system was driven to its limits by presenting one, two or four scenes simultaneously.  Behavior and ERP reveal a clear cost in processing an increasing number of scenes.  However, a parallel-late selection model can still account for the results.  This model is developed and discussed with reference to behavioral, single-unit and ERP data.  # 2003 Elsevier Ltd.  All rights reserved. 
Rate coding versus temporal order coding: a theoretical approach| Abstract The belief that neurones transmit information in the form of a firing rate code is almost universal. 
Networks of integrate-and-"re neurons using Rank Order Coding B: Spike timing dependent plasti ity and emergen e of orientation sele tivity| Abstract Rank Order Coding is an alternative to conventional rate coding schemes that uses the order in which a neuron's inputs "re to en ode information.  In a visual system framework, we simulated the asyn hronous waves of retinal spikes produ ed in response to natural s enes and used them to stimulate integrate-and-"re V1 neurons that implemented a standard learning rule based on spike timing.  After propagating thousands of images, orientation like re eptive "elds arise in these neurons despite the fa t that the input neurons never "red more than on e.  We also analyze the biologi al plausibility of su h a network. 
Neurons tune to the earliest spikes through STDP| Spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) is a learning rule that modifies the strength of a neuron's synapses as a function of the precise temporal relations between input and output spikes.  In many brains areas, temporal aspects of spike trains have been found to be highly reproducible.  How will STDP affect a neuron's behaviour when it is repeatedly presented with the same input spike pattern? We show in this theoretical study that repeated inputs systematically lead to a shaping of the neuron's selectivity emphasizing its very first input spikes, while steadily decreasing the post-synaptic response latency.  This was obtained under various conditions of background noise, and even under conditions where spiking latencies and firing rates, or synchrony, provided conflicting informations.  The key role of first spikes demonstrated here provides further support for models using a single wave of spikes to implement rapid neural processing. 
Rapid categorisation of achromatic natural scenes: how robust at very low contrasts?| Abstract The human visual system is remarkably good at categorising objects even in challenging visual conditions.  Here we specifically assessed the robustness of the visual system to large variations of contrast in a high-level categorisation task using natural images.  Human subjects performed a go/no-go animal/non-animal categorisation task with briefly flashed grey level images.  Performance was analysed for a large range of contrast conditions randomly presented to the subjects and varying from normal to 3% of initial contrast.  Accuracy was very robust and subjects were performing well above chance level (around 70% correct) with only 12-25% of initial contrast.  Accuracy decreased with contrast reduction but reached chance level only in the most extreme condition (3% of initial contrast).  Conversely, mean reaction time increased, to reach a maximal augmentation of about 60 ms (at 8% of initial contrast) that remained stable with further contrast reductions.  Associated ERPs recorded on correct target and distractor trials showed a clear differential effect whose amplitude and peak latency were respectively correlated with task accuracy and mean reaction times.  These data show the strong robustness of the visual system in object categorisation at very low contrast.  They suggest that magnocellular information could play a role in ventral stream visual functions such as object recognition.  Performance may rely on early object representations that lack the details provided subsequently by the parvocellular system but contain enough information to reach decision in the categorisation task. 
High level vision with a single feed-forward pass?| Abstract Vision certainly in volves both feed-forward and feed-back based mechanisms.  But are there visual tasks that can be performed using just a single feed-forward pass? Behavioural and electrophysiological data suggest that some high level tasks that include detecting the presence of an animalin a natural scene can be performed so quickly that there seems to be little if any opportunity to make use of iterative mechanisms.  Other evidence comes from simulation studies with SpikeNet, an image processing system that uses very large scale networks of asynchronously firing neurons.  The latest version allows very efficient object identification in real-time using a video input, and although this specific implementation is designed to run on standard computer hardware, there are a number of clear implications for computational neuroscience.  Specifically, SpikeNet demonstrates the plausibility of visual processing based on a single feed-forward pass and very sparse levels of firing.  Above all, it is one of the very few models compatible with the severe temporal constraints imposed by experimental data on processing speed in the visual system. 
Rate Coding Versus Temporal Order Coding: What the Retinal Ganglion Cells Tell the Visual Cortex| It is often supposed that the messages sent to the visual cortex by the retinal ganglion cells are encoded by the mean firing rates observed on spike trains generatedwithaPoisson process.  Usinganinformation transmission approach, we evaluate the performances of two such codes, one based on the spike count and the other on the mean interspike interval, and compare the results with a rank order code, where the first ganglion cells to emit a spike are given a maximal weight.  Our results show that the rate codes are far from optimal for fast information transmission and that the temporal structure of the spike train can be efficiently used to maximize the information transfer rate under conditions where each cell needs to fire only one spike. 
Temporal Order Coding: What the Retinal Ganglion Cells Tell the Visual Cortex| It is often supposed that the messages sent to the visual cortex by the retinal ganglion cells are encoded by the mean ring rates observed on spike trains generated with a Poisson process.  Using an information transmission approach, we evaluate the performances of two such codes, one based on the spike count and the other on the mean interspike interval, and compare the results with a rank order code, where the rst ganglion cells to emit a spike are given a maximal weight.  Our results show that the rate codes are far from optimal for fast information transmission and that the temporal structure of the spike train can be ef ciently used to maximize the information transfer rate under conditions where each cell needs to re only one spike. 
The time course of visual processing: Backward masking and natural scene categorisation| Abstract Human observers are very good at deciding whether briefly flashed novel images contain an animal and previous work has shown that the underlying visual processing can be performed in under 150 ms. Here we used a masking paradigm to determine how information accumulates over time during such high-level categorisation tasks. As the delay between test image and mask is increased, both behavioural accuracy and di1erential ERP amplitude rapidly increase to reach asymptotic levels around 40--60 ms. Such results imply that processing at each stage in the visual system is remarkably rapid, with information accumulating almost continuously following the onset of activation. 
Spatial attention in asynchronous neural networks| Abstract We propose a simple mechanism for spatial visual attention that involves selectively lowering the thresholds of neurons with receptive "elds
Detection of animals in natural images using far peripheral vision| Abstract It is generally believed that the acuity of the peripheral visual eld is too poor to allow accurate object recognition and, that to be identied, most objects need to be brought into foveal vision by using saccadic eye movements.  However, most measures of form vision in the periphery have been done at eccentricities below 10and have used relatively articial stimuli such as letters, digits and compound Gabor patterns.  Little is known about how such data would apply in the case of more naturalistic stimuli.  Here humans were required to categorize briey ashed (28 ms) unmasked photographs of natural scenes (39high, and 26across) on the basis of whether or not they contained an animal.  The photographs appeared randomly in nine locations across virtually the entire extent of the horizontal visual eld.  Accuracy was 93. 3% for central vision and decreased almost linearly with increasing eccentricity
Networks of integrate-and-"re neuron using rank order coding : How to implement spike time dependent Hebbian plasticity| Abstract Based on neurophysiological observations on the behavior of synapses, spike time dependent Hebbian plasticity is a novel extension to the modeling of the Hebb rule.  This rule has enormous importance in the learning of spiking neural networks (SNN) but its mechanisms and computational properties are still to be explored.  In this article, we present a generative model for spike time dependent plasticity based on a simpli"ed model of the synaptic kinetic.  We then explore the "tting of this model to experimental data and review some of its dynamical properties.  Finally, we extend this model to a simpli"ed model of integrate-and-"re (IF) neurons network using rank order coding. 
BIOLOGICAL CONSTRAINTS ON CONNECTIONIST MODELLING| ABSTRACT Many researchers interested in connectionist models accept that such models are "neurally inspired" but do not worry too much about whether their models are biologically realistic.  While such a position may be perfectly justifiable, the present paper attempts to illustrate how biological information can be used to constrain connectionist models.  Two particular areas are discussed.  The first section deals with visual information processing in the primate and human visual system.  It is argued that speed with which visual information is processed imposes major constraints on the architecture and operation of the visual system.  In particular, it seems that a great deal of processing must depend on a single bottum-up pass.  The second section deals with biological aspects of learning algorithms.  It is argued that although there is good evidence for certain coactivation related synaptic modification schemes, other learning mechanisms, including back-propagation, are not currently supported by experimental data. 
SpikeNET: an event-driven simulation package for modelling large networks of spiking neurons| Abstract Many biological neural network models face the problem of scalability because of the limited computational power of today's computers.  Thus, it is difficult to assess the efficiency of these models to solve complex problems such as image processing.  Here, we describe how this problem can be tackled using eventdriven computation.  Only the neurons that emit a discharge are processed and, as long as the average spike discharge rate is low, millions of neurons and billions of connections can be modelled.  We describe the underlying computation and implementation of such a mechanism in SpikeNET, our neural network simulation package.  The type of model one can build is not only biologically compliant, it is also computationally efficient as 400 000 synaptic weights can be propagated per second on a standard desktop computer.  In addition, for large networks, we can set very small time steps (<0. 01 ms) without significantly increasing the computation time.  As an example, this method is applied to solve complex cognitive tasks such as face recognition in natural images. 
Rapid Visual Processing using Spike Asynchrony| Abstract We have investigated the possibility that rapid processing in the visual system could be achieved by using the order of firing in different neurones as a code, rather than more conventional firing rate schemes.  Using SPIKENET, a neural net simulator based on integrate-and-fire neurones and in which neurones in the input layer function as analogto-delay converters, we have modeled the initial stages of visual processing.  Initial results are extremely promising.  Even with activity in retinal output cells limited to one spike per neuron per image (effectively ruling out any form of rate coding), sophisticated processing based on asynchronous activation was nonetheless possible. 
Surfing a spike wave down the ventral stream| Abstract Numerous theories of neural processing, often motivated byexperimental observations, have explored the computational properties of neural codes based on the absolute or relative timing of spikes in spike trains.  Spiking neuron models and theories however, as well as their experimental counterparts, have generallybeen limited to the simulation or observation of isolated neurons, isolated spike trains, or reduced neural populations.  Such theories would therefore seem inappropriate to capture the properties of a neural code relying on temporal spike patterns distributed across large neuronal populations.  Here we report a range of computer simulations and theoretical considerations that were designed to explore the possibilities of one such code and its relevance for visual processing.  In a unified framework where the relation between stimulus saliencyand spike relative timing plays the central role, we describe how the ventral stream of the visual system could process natural input scenes and extract meaningful information, both rapidlyand reliably.  The first wave of spikes generated in the retina in response to a visual stimulation carries information explicitlyin its spatio-temporal structure: the most salient information is represented bythe first spikes over the population.  This spike wave, propagating through a hierarchyof visual areas, is regenerated at each processing stage, where its temporal structure can be modified by(i) the selectivityof the cortical neurons, (ii) lateral interactions and (iii) top-down attentional influences from higher order cortical areas.  The resulting model could account for the remarkable e. ciencyand rapidityof processing observed in the primate visual system. 
SpikeNET: A simulator for modeling large networks of integrate and fire neurons| Abstract SpikeNET is a simulator for modeling large networks of asynchronously spiking neurons.  It uses simple integrate-and-fire neurons which undergo step-like changes in membrane potential when synaptic inputs arrive.  If a threshold is exceeded, the potential is reset and the neuron added to a list to be propagated on the next time step.  Using such spike lists greatly reduces the computations associated with large networks, and simplifies implementations using parallel hardware since inter-processor communication can be limited to sending lists of the neurons which just fired.  We have used it to model complex multi-layer architectures based on the primate visual system that involve millions of neurons and billions of synaptic connections.  Such models are not only biological but also efficient, robust and very fast, qualities which they share with the human visual system. 
Biological constraints on connectionist models|
Rank order coding: A new coding scheme for rapid processing in neural networks|
Dynamics of orientation coding in area V1 of the awake monkey|
Rapid categorization of natural images by rhesus monkeys|
Spike arrival times: A highly efficient coding scheme for neural networks|
Responses of striatal neurons in the behaving monkey: 1| Head of the caudate nucleus,. 
How parallel is visual processing in the ventral pathway?|
Parallel processing in high-level categorization of natural images|
Brain activity during rapid scene categorization---a study using event-related FMRI|
Object recognition using spiking neurons ii: Spatial attention explained by temporal precedence of information|
Ultra-rapid visual processing demonstrated with saccadic eye movements|
Spatial attention in asynchronous neural networks|
Rapid categorization of extrafoveal natural images: Implications for biological models|
Spike-based strategies for rapid processing|
A limit to the speed of processing in ultra-rapid visual categorization of novel natural scenes|
The time course of visual processing: from early perception to decision-making|
Very early ERP effects in rapid visual categorization of natural scenes: Distinguishing the role of lowlevel visual properties and task requirements|
in revision)| Foveal vision is not necessary for rapid categorisation of natural images: A behavioural and ERP study. 
Fast visual processing and its implications|
in press)| Rapid categorisation of achromatic natural scenes: how robust at very low contrasts?. 
Seeking categories in the brain|
Face detection using one spike per neurone,|
Biological contraints on connectionist modelling|
Feed--Forward Processing in the Visual System and the Role of Asynchrony|
Human antibody fragments specific for human blood group antigens from a phage display library|
Rapid object recognition based on asynchronous feed-forward processing 22nd European Conf| on Visual Perception (. 
Face identification using one spike per neuron: resistance to image degradations|
Motion processing using one spike per neuron Computational Neuroscience: Trends in Research 2001 (9th Annual Computational Neuroscience Mtg,|
Networks of integrate-and-fire neuron using rank order coding A: How to implement spike time dependent Hebbian plasticity|
Speed of processing in the visual system,|
Fa e identi" ation using one spike per neuron: resistan e to image degradations,|
Connectionism in perspective|
The orbitofrontal cortex : Neuronal activity in the behaving monkey|
ERP studies of object categorization in natural scenes: In search for category specific differential activities|
Rapid categorisation of foveal and extrafoveal natural images: Associated ERPs and effect of lateralisation (|
Neural processing of stereopsis as a function of viewing distance in primate visual cortical area V1,|
Identification of rapidly presented images by the human visual system|
Coding of orientation by the visual cortex : Neural network modelling|
Humans fail on XOR pattern recognition problems|
Biological constraints on connectionnist modelling|
Categorisation of complex natural images in extreme peripheral vision|
in press)| A limit to the speed of processing in Ultra-Rapid visual categorization of novel natural scenes. 
