SHAPE EVALUATION FOR WEIGHTED ACTIVE SHAPE MDOELS| ABSTRACT Active Shape Models (ASM) is a powerful statistical tool for face alignment.  However, no evaluation is performed on the final results.  Nevertheless, the shape evaluation information is very useful for the search and the final results.  In this paper, a shape evaluation method and a new search algorithm, called weighted ASM, are proposed.  The shape evaluation is based on the local appearance model of ASM to determine how well the searching shape match models derived from the training set.  It is used to guide the search procedure to get more accurate results.  The weighted-ASM also uses this evaluation information to project the searching shape into the solution shape space in a weighted way.  Compared with ASM's orthogonal projection, the weighted projection can drag the search out of local minima to be more accurate and more robust.  Experiments have been done to show the ability of this method to align shapes. 
Content-Based Audio Classification and Retrieval Using SVM Learning| Abstract In this paper, a support vector machines (SVMs) based method is proposed for content-based audio classification and retrieval.  Given a feature set, which in this work is composed of perceptual and cepstral feature, optimal class boundaries between classes are learned from training data by using SVMs.  Matches are ranked by using distances from boundaries.  Experiments are presented to compare various classification methods and feature sets. 
PARAMETER OPTIMIZATION FOR ACTIVE SHAPE MDOELS| ABSTRACT Active Shape Models (ASM) is a powerful statistical tool for extracting objects, e. g.  face, from images .  It is composed of two parts: ASM model and ASM search.  In ASM, these two parts are treated separately.  First, ASM model is trained.  Then, ASM search is performed using this model.  However, we find that these two parts are closely interrelated.  The performance of ASM depends on both of them.  Improvement on one of them does not consequentially improve the overall performance, for it may worsen the other.  In this paper, we find the key parameter that relates these two parts: subspace explanation proportion.  By optimizing subspace explanation proportion, the overall performance of ASM can improve by a percentage of about 20 in our experiments.  Furthermore, this paper proposes to decompose the ASM overall error into ASM model subspace reconstruction error and ASM search error, proving that the square of the subspace reconstruction error is linearly related with the subspace explanation proportion and finding that the square of the search error is a piecewise function of the explanation proportion.  This decomposition is a new method for further analysis and possible improvement.  Based on this decomposition, we propose a method to estimate the optimal explanation proportion.  Experiments show that the estimation is satisfactory. 
REAL-TIME FACE DETECTION USING BOOSTING LEARNING IN HIERARCHICAL FEATURE SPACES| Abstract.  Boosting-based methods have recently led to the state-of-the-art face detection systems.  In these systems, weak classifiers to be boosted are based on simple, local, Haar-like features.  However, it can be empirically observed that in later stages of the boosting process, the non-face examples collected by bootstrapping become very similar to the face examples, and the classification error of Haar-like feature-based weak classifiers is thus very close to 50%.  As a result, the performance of a face detector cannot be further improved.  This paper proposed a solution to this problem, introducing a face detection method based on boosting in hierarchical feature spaces (both local and global).  We argue that global features, like those derived from Principal Component Analysis, can be advantageously used in the later stages of boosting, when local features do not provide any further benefit, without affecting computational complexity.  We show, based on statistics of face and non-face examples, that weak classifiers learned in hierarchical feature spaces are better boosted.  Our methodology leads to a face detection system that achieves higher performance than the current state-of-the-art system, at a comparable speed. 
Nonlinear Mapping from Multi-View Face Patterns to a Gaussian Distribution in a Low Dimensional Space| Abstract When face patterns are subject to changes in view and illumination and facial shape, their distribution is highly nonlinear and complex in any space linear to the original image space.  In this paper, we investigate into a nonlinear mapping by which multi-view face patterns in the input space are mapped into invariant points in a low (10-) dimensional feature space.  The invariance to both illumination and view is achieved in two-stages: First, a nonlinear mapping from the input space to a low (10-) dimensional feature space is learned from multi-view face examples to achieve illumination invariance.  The illumination invariant feature points of face patterns across views are on a curve parameterized by the view parameter, and the view parameter of a face pattern can be estimated from the location of the feature point on the curve by using least squares fit.  Then the second nonlinear mapping, which is from the illumination invariant feature space to another feature space of the same dimension, is performed to achieve invariance to both illumination and view.  This amounts to do a normalization based on the view estimate.  By the two stage nonlinear mapping, multi-view face patterns are mapped to a zero mean Gaussian distribution in the latter feature space.  Properties of the nonlinear mappings and the Gaussian face distribution are explored and supported by experiments. 
Learning with Cascade for Classification of Non-Convex Manifolds| Abstract Images of a visual object, such as human face, reside in a complicated manifold in the high dimensional image space, when the object is subject to variations in pose, illumination, and other factors.  Viola and Jones [1, 2, 3] have successfully tackled difficult nonlinear classification problem for face detection using AdaBoost learning.  Moreover, their simple-to-complex cascade of classifiers structure makes the learning and classification even more effective.  While training with cascade has been used effectively in many works
Face Detection by Neural Learning| Abstract A neural network based face detection system is presented.  Statistical pattern recognition (PR) techniques areused to optimize the feature selection.  A neural network (NN) method is used to learn a complex mapping function for the classification, given the optimized feature set.  The optimization of feature set reduces the burden of the subsequent NN classifier and improves its performance in learning speed and classification rates.  The use of the NN for classification avoids the need for the simplification of classifier function, as practiced in the PR approach, for the mathematical tractability at the sacrifice of the performance.  Experimental results show that our system produces higher detection and lower missing rates than several existing state-of-the-art face detection systems, with an average false detection rate.  This demonstrates the effectiveness of the strategies used in our system. 
Face alignment using texture-constrained active shape models| Abstract In this paper, we propose a texture-constrained active shape model (TC-ASM) to localize a face in an image.  TC-ASM effectively incorporates not only the shape prior and local appearance around each landmark, but also the global texture constraint over the shape.  Therefore, it performs stable to initialization, accurate in shape localization and robust to illumination variation, with low computational cost.  Extensive experiments are provided to demonstrate our algorithm. 
Research on Distributed Real Time Network Information Auditing System| Abstract This paper discusses a method to realize the real time network information auditing system in the windows operating system.  Distributed architecture and BPF packet filter mechanism are used to accomplish the acquisition of sensitive data in the network.  By the use of raw socket technique, sensitive packets are gathered.  Intellectualized identification technology is utilized to do auditing of the network information and has realized a network information auditing system with high performance at low cost.  The archetypal system shows good performance in test.  1.  Background With the rapid development of the Internet, the release and sharing of information have been more and more popular.  However, because of the Internet's openness, socialization and individuation, some unhealthy information has been released on the net.  Further more, companies and enterprises, when getting connected to the Internet, also confronted the problem of leaking important techniques and commercial security to opponents.  Thus, appropriate information auditing is necessary to assure network healthy development.  Information auditing technique can monitor the network dataflow in real-time, find unhealthy information, log visiting information, and supply evidences for later check-up; By analyzing network dataflow, reporting suspicious connection and events, information auditing technique can prevent enterprise's information from being leaked.  2.  System mechanism 2. 1 Network based information auditing technology Network based information auditing can collect information from the network system.  By analyzing the information, net auditing system can realize the real-time monitoring and prevent information leakage, information illegal access, and protect the secret information.  Information auditing system can record visiting information as follows: source IP address, destination IP address (host that has been visited), accurate visiting timestamp, services (http, mail or telnet) and etc.  Auditing system must have the ability to monitor and accumulate the secure events.  That is, while some kind of "bad" information-visiting events has reached a threshold, the system can report to the secure officer.  If such event continues to occur, the system can stop it with low cost.  2. 2 Key technology analysis 2. 2. 1 Intellectual Information Identification Content comprehension is quite necessary for information auditing.  Content analysis model is based on information content, while common information analysis models are based on vocabulary level, separating grammar, discrete content and context.  This kind of information models leads to rigidity and low efficiency.  This system makes full use of sensitive information database (SID) and sensitive information analyzer (SIA) to simulate human content-comprehension models, and realizes information content analysis and capture of sensitive information in some degree.  1)
Ensemble-based Discriminant Learning with Boosting For Face Recognition| Abstract In this paper, we propose a novel ensemble-based approach to boost performance of traditional Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA)-based methods used in face recognition.  The ensemble-based approach is based on the recently emerged technique known as "boosting".  However, it is generally believed that boosting-like learning rules are not suited to a strong and stable learner such as LDA.  To break the limitation, a novel weakness analysis theory is developed here.  The theory attempts to boost a strong learner by increasing the diversity between the classifiers created by the learner, at the expense of decreasing their margins, so as to achieve a trade-off suggested by recent boosting studies for a low generalization error.  In addition, a novel distribution accounting for the pairwise class discriminant information is introduced for effective interaction between the booster and the LDA-based learner.  The integration of all these methodologies proposed here leads to the novel ensemble-based discriminant learning approach, capable of taking advantage of both the boosting and LDA techniques.  Promising experimental results obtained on various difficult face recognition scenarios demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.  We believe that this work is especially beneficial in extending the boosting framework to accommodate general (strong/weak) learners. 
AUDIO TEXTURES| ABSTRACT In this paper, we introduce a new audio medium, called audio texture, as a means of synthesizing long audio stream according to a given short example audio clip.  The example clip is analyzed, and basic building patterns are extracted.  Then an audio stream of arbitrary length is synthesized using a sequence of extracted building patterns.  The patterns can be varied in the synthesis process to add variations to the generated sound.  Audio textures are useful in applications such as background music, lullabies, game music, and screen saver sounds.  A method is proposed for implementing audio textures.  Preliminary results of audio textures are provided at our website for evaluation. 
Rule mining with prior knowledge - a belief networks approach| Abstract Some existing data mining methods, such as classification trees, neural networks and association rules, have the drawbacks that the user's prior knowledge cannot be easily specified and incorporated into the knowledge discovery process, and the rules mined from databases lack quantitative analyses.  In this paper, we propose a belief networks method for rule mining, which takes the advantage of belief networks as the directed acyclic graph language and their function for numerical representation of probabilistic dependencies among the variables in the database, so that it can overcome the drawbacks.  Since belief networks provide a natural representation for capturing causal relationship among a set of variables, our proposed method can mine more general correlation rules which can capture the relationship of more than two attribute variables.  The potential application of the proposed method is demonstrated through the detailed case studies on benchmark databases. 
Performance Evaluation of the Nearest Feature Line Method in Image Classification and Retrieval| Abstract A new method, the nearest feature line (NFL) method, is used in image classification and retrieval, and its performance is evaluated and compared with other methods by extensive experiments.  The NFL method is demonstrated to make ecient use of knowledge about multiple prototypes of a class to represent that class. 
Face Recognition Using the Nearest Feature Line Method| Abstract--- In this paper, we propose a novel classification method, called the nearest feature line (NFL), for face recognition.  Any two feature points of the same class (person) are generalized by the feature line (FL) passing through the two points.  The derived FL can capture more variations of face images than the original points and thus expands the capacity of the available database.  The classification is based on the nearest distance from the query feature point to each FL.  With a combined face database, the NFL error rate is about 43. 7--65. 4% of that of the standard eigenface method.  Moreover, the NFL achieves the lowest error rate reported to date for the ORL face database. 
FloatBoost Learning for Classification| Abstract AdaBoost [3] minimizes an upper error bound which is an exponential function of the margin on the training set [14].  However, the ultimate goal in applications of pattern classification is always minimum error rate.  On the other hand, AdaBoost needs an effective procedure for learning weak classifiers, which by itself is difficult especially for high dimensional data.  In this paper, we present a novel procedure, called FloatBoost, for learning a better boosted classifier.  FloatBoost uses a backtrack mechanism after each iteration of AdaBoost to remove weak classifiers which cause higher error rates.  The resulting float-boosted classifier consists of fewer weak classifiers yet achieves lower error rates than AdaBoost in both training and test.  We also propose a statistical model for learning weak classifiers, based on a stagewise approximation of the posterior using an overcomplete set of scalar features.  Experimental comparisons of FloatBoost and AdaBoost are provided through a difficult classification problem, face detection, where the goal is to learn from training examples a highly nonlinear classifier to differentiate between face and nonface patterns in a high dimensional space.  The results clearly demonstrate the promises made by FloatBoost over AdaBoost. 
Content-based audio classification and segmentation by using support vector machines| Abstract.  Content-based audio classification and segmentation is a basis for further audio/video analysis.  In this paper, we present our work on audio segmentation and classification which employs support vector machines (SVMs).  Five audio classes are considered in this paper: silence, music, background sound, pure speech, and non-pure speech which includes speech over music and speech over noise.  A sound stream is segmented by classifying each sub-segment into one of these five classes.  We have evaluated the performance of SVM on different audio type-pairs classification with testing unit of different-length and compared the performance of SVM, K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN), and Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM).  We also evaluated the effectiveness of some new proposed features.  Experiments on a database composed of about 4-hour audio data show that the proposed classifier is very efficient on audio classification and segmentation.  It also shows the accuracy of the SVM-based method is much better than the method based on KNN and GMM. 
On Discontinuity-Adaptive Smoothness Priors in Computer Vision|
Statistical Learning of Multi-view Face Detection|
Reproducing kernel element method| Part III: generalized enrichment and applications,. 
Matching: invariant to translations, rotations and scale changes|
Illumination Modeling and Normalization for Face Recognition|
Learning Low Dimensional Invariant Signature of 3-D Object under Varying View and Illumination from 2-D Appearances|
Face Alignment Using Statistical Models and Wavelet Features|
Markov Random Field Modelling in Computer VIsion|
MRF parameter estimation by MCMC method|
Face Alignment Using View-Based Direct Appearance Models, Special Issue on Facial Image Processing, Analysis and Synthesis|
Kernel Machine Based Learning for Multi-View Face Detection and Pose Estimation|
Toward 3D Vision from Range Images: An Optimization Framework and Parallel Distributed Networks,|
Key-frame extraction and shot retrieval using nearest feature line (NFL)|
Multi-View Face Alignment Using Direct Appearance Models|
Automatic Registration of aerial photographs and digitized maps",|
Learning Representative Local Features for Face Detection|
Toward 3D vision from range images",|
Direct Appearance Models|
Boosting for ContentBased Audio Classification and Retrieval:|
Close-Form Solution and Parameter Selection for Convex Minimization-Based Edge-Preserving Smoothing|
Robustizing robust M-estimation using deterministic annealing|
Pairwise Face Recognition|
Manifold Learning and Applications in Recognition"|
Adaptive sampling and mesh generation|
Convex MRF potential functions|
Real-time multi-view face detection, tracking, pose estimation, alignment, and recognition|
Face Recognition by Support Vector Machines|
Real-Time Multi-View Face Detection|
Bayesian shape model for facial feature extraction and recognition|
Discontinuous MRF prior and robust statistics: a comparative study|
Content-based Audio Segmentation using Support Vector Machine",|
Reconstruction without discontinuities|
A Two-Stage Probabilistic Approach for Object Recognition|
Nearest Manifold Approach for Face Recognition|
Support vector machines for face recognition|
Generalizing Capacity of Face Database for Face Recognition|
AI-EigenSnake: an affine-invariant deformable contour model for object matching|
Bayesian image restoration and segmentation by constrained optimizatio|
Multi-View Face Pose Estimation Based on Supervised ISA Learning|
Moving least-square reproducing kernel method Part II: Fourier analysis,|
Face Recognition Based on Multiple Facial Features|
Local nonnegative matrix factorization as a visual representation|
Generalized Quotient Image|
Matching and Recognition of Road Networks from Aerial Images|
Texture-constrained active shape models|
FloatBoost Learning and Statistical Face Detection|
Boosting Local Binary Pattern (LBP)-Based Face Recognition|
Introduction|
Learning illuminationinvariant signature of 3-d object from 2-d multi-view appearances"|
The the nearest feature line method in image classification and retrieval"|
Markov Random Field Modeling in Image Analysis|
Inexact matching of 3D surfaces|
Relaxation labeling of Markov random fields|
