Policy Reform and Growth in Post-Soviet Russia| Abstract In pursuit of its transition from a command to a market economy, Russia has witnessed enormous regional differences in economic growth rates.  Moreover, the implementation of economic reforms has also differed markedly across regions.  We analyze whether regional differences in reform policies can account for regional differences in growth rates, and conclude that to a considerable degree, they can.  Most notably, we find that regional differences in price liberalization policies exhibit a positive direct correspondence with growth.  We also find that regional differences in large-scale privatization exhibit a positive correspondence with the regional formation of new legal enterprises, which in turn exhibits a strong positive correspondence with growth. 
The Europeanisation of spatial planning in Britain: New spatial ideas for old territories?| Abstract This paper explores the representation of European space in images, and the significance of these images in building and reproducing policy discourses of European space.  Landmark and less well known images of European spatial relations are discussed, from representations of trans-European infrastructure networks to the iconic 'bananas' and 'grapes', which articulate European spatial concepts such as polycentricity in image form.  These are seen to create a challenging context for more localised planning processes, and the case of South Yorkshire is used to illustrate how the ideas and images representing alternative spatial futures are becoming Europeanised.  Images are understood as elements of an emerging transnational spatial policy discourse, and so are analysed in the context of contestation over meanings, played out in policy debates, in documentation and in other practices of spatial planning.  In particular we concentrate on how images are used together with textual references and discussions to form a persuasive component of spatial discourse.  We therefore analyse these representations of space as contested, rather than as the outputs of rational spatial analysis.  The aim is to reveal the underlying rationales of different framings of space and spatial relations, leading to insights into the ways in which such images are playing an increasingly important role in foregrounding certain ways of thinking about European space and mobility whilst bracketing others.  Our analysis suggests that whilst iconic representations of European space articulate an apparently unified view of European development, they also embody major unresolved tensions at the heart of the spatial development strategy, in particular between competing configurations of urban and regional development and mobility.  Depending on their interpretation, the images can be seen as capturing the tensions between flows and places, and between underlying rationalities of cohesion and competition.  Overall, the paper argues that whilst the use of images in EU spatial policy discourse succeeds in strongly visioning a polycentric Europe of flows, it also (perhaps unintentionally) reproduces the uncertainties, conflicts and tensions which surround this vision.  The paper concludes with a discussion of how such use of images can contribute to the formation of a European identity.  Authors' note This paper is based on Jensen, O.  and Richardson, T.  (2003) `Being on the map: the new iconographies of power over European space', International Planning Studies, 8 (1): 9-34.  Further analysis of European spatial policy is found in Jensen, O.  and
Orientation rules for constructing Markov equivalence classes for maximal ancestral graphs| Abstract It is well known that there may be many causal explanations that are consistent with a given set of data.  For processes that can be represented by a directed acyclic graph (DAG), many authors have characterized the common aspects of these explanations into one representation.  What is less well known is how the relationships common to every causal explanation among the observed variables of some DAG process change in the presence of latent variables.  Ancestral graphs provide a class of graphs that can encode conditional independence relations that arise in DAG models with latent and selection variables.  In this paper we present a set of orientation rules that construct the Markov equivalence class representative, given a member of the equivalence class.  These rules are sound and complete.  We also show that when the equivalence class includes a DAG, the equivalence class representative is the essential graph for the said DAG. 
Multiple-antenna signal constellations for fading channels| Abstract In this paper we show that the problem of designing ecientmultiple-antenna signal constellations for fading channels can be related to the problem of finding packings with large minimum distance in the complex Grassmannian space.  We describe a numerical optimization procedure for finding good packings in the complex Grassmannian space and report the best signal constellations found by this procedure.  These constellations improve significantly upon previously known results. 
Analysis of sum-product decoding of low-density parity-check codes using a Gaussian approximation| Abstract---Density evolution is an algorithm for computing the capacity of low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes under messagepassing decoding.  For memoryless binary-input continuous-output additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN) channels and sum-product decoders, we use a Gaussian approximation for message densities under density evolution to simplify the analysis of the decoding algorithm.  We convert the infinite-dimensional problem of iteratively calculating message densities, which is needed to find the exact threshold, to a one-dimensional problem of updating means of Gaussian densities.  This simplification not only allows us to calculate the threshold quickly and to understand the behavior of the decoder better, but also makes it easier to design good irregular LDPC codes for AWGN channels.  For various regular LDPC codes we have examined, thresholds can be estimated within 0. 1 dB of the exact value.  For rates between 0. 5 and 0. 9, codes designed using the Gaussian approximation perform within 0. 02 dB of the best performing codes found so far by using density evolution when the maximum variable degree is 10.  We show that by using the Gaussian approximation, we can visualize the sum-product decoding algorithm.  We also show that the optimization of degree distributions can be understood and done graphically using the visualization. 
Legitimacy, deliberative arenas and the new rural governance| Abstract It is widely accep ted that new governance structures are necessary in order to address the challenges inherent in the aim of rural sustainable development.  There is also a widespread assumption, often elevated to a normative princip le, that to address the need for the integration of diverse interests such structures should bring stakeholders together in ways which encourage the development of consensus through deliberation.  However, effective governance structures must not only have the institutional capacity to act but also the legitimacy to do so.  Creating such structures is not straightforward: bringing stakeholders together may promote but does not guarantee any or all of sustainable development, legitimacy , or the capacity to manage territory .  This paper seeks therefore to open up debate on the legitimacy of different forms of deliberative governance structures and, further, whether the emphasis on creating new deliberative arenas is necessarily an improvement over more traditional forms of governance.  It draws on research which examined decision making for sustainable transport policy in a single national park -- the Peak District in England.  In order to integrate conf licting interests and build capacity to act the Park Authority established three very different types of deliberative arenas: strategic partnership working, local consensus-building, and an extension of its own representative democratic structures.  These were analysed to compare how stakeholders' interests were integrated or marginalised, and so the extent to which the structures' legitimacy was constructed and sustained as stakeholders also sought to satisfy the potentially conflicting demands of increasing effectiveness and advancing sustainable policies. 
Systematic design of unitary space-time constellations| Abstract We propose a systematic method for creating constellations of unitary space-time signals for multipleantenna communication links.  Unitary space-time signals, which are orthonormal in time across the antennas, have been shown to be well-tailored to a Rayleigh fading channel where neither the transmitter nor the receiver knows the fading coefficients.  The signals can achieve low probability of error by exploiting multiple-antenna diversity.  Because the fading coefficients are not known, the criterion for creating and evaluating the constellation is nonstandard and differs markedly from the familiar
Accounting for Growth in Post-Soviet Russia| Abstract In pursuit of its transition from a command to a market economy, post-Soviet Russia has witnessed enormous regional differences in economic growth rates.  We find that these regional differences exhibit remarkable correspondence with the formation of new legal enterprises.  In turn, regional variations in the adoption of economic reforms appear to be an important factor in accounting for regional variations in new-enterprise formation. 
Interpretable Boosted Naïve Bayes Classification| Abstract Voting methods such as boosting and bagging provide substantial improvements in classification performance in many problem domains.  However, the resulting predictions can prove inscrutable to end-users.  This is especially problematic in domains such as medicine, where end-user acceptance often depends on the ability of a classifier to explain its reasoning.  Here we propose a variant of the boosted nave Bayes classifier that facilitates explanations while retaining predictive performance. 
Using D-separation to Calculate Zero Partial Correlations in Linear Models with Correlated Errors| Abstract It has been shown in Spirtes(1995) that X and Y are d-separated given Z in a directed graph associated with a recursive or non-recursive linear model without correlated errors if and only if the model entails that r XY. Z = 0.  This result cannot be directly applied to a linear model with correlated errors, however, because the standard graphical representation of a linear model with correlated errors is not a directed graph.  The main result of this paper is to show how to associate a directed graph with a linear model L with correlated errors, and then use d-separation in the associated directed graph to determine whether L entails that a particular partial correlation is zero.  In a linear structural equation model (SEM) some partial correlations may be equal to zero for all values of the model's free parameters (for which the partial correlation is defined).  (When we refer to "all values" of the free parameters, we assume that there are no constraints upon the models parameters except for the coefficients and the correlations among the error variables that are fixed at zero. ) In this case we will say that the SEM linearly entails that the partial correlation is zero.  It has been shown in Spirtes(1995) that X and Y are d-separated given Z in a directed graph associated with a recursive or nonrecursive linear model with uncorrelated errors if and only if the model linearly entails that r XY. Z = 0.  This result cannot be directly applied to a linear model with correlated errors, however, because the standard graphical representation of a linear model with correlated errors is not a directed graph.  The main result of this paper is to show how to associate a directed graph with a linear model L with correlated errors, and then use d-separation in the associated directed graph to determine whether L linearly entails that a particular partial correlation is zero.  The standard graph terminology in this paper, the standard terminology for linear structural equation models, and the relationship between the two terminologies are described in the Appendix.  If G is the graph of SEM L with correlated errors, let Transform(G) be the graph resulting from replacing a double headed arrow between correlated errors e i and e j with a new latent variable T ij (i < j) and edges from T ij to X i and X j , and then removing the error terms from the graph.  See Figure 1.  A trek between X i and X j is an undirected path between X i and X j that contains no colliders.  If there is a trek X i T ij X j in Transform(G), we will say that X i and X j are d-adjacent in Transform(G).  A trek X j T ij X i is called a correlated error trek in Transform(G).  In Transform(G), a correlated error trek sequence is a sequence of vertices <X i , .  . . , X k } such that no pair of vertices adjacent in the sequence are identical, and for each pair of vertices X r and X s adjacent in the sequence, there is a correlated error trek between X r and X s .  For example in Figure 1, the sequence of vertices <
Graphical Answers to Questions about Likelihood Inference for Gaussian Covariance Models| Abstract In graphical modelling, a bi-directed graph encodes marginal independences among random variables that are identified with the vertices of the graph (alternatively graphs with dashed edges have been used for this purpose).  Bi-directed graphs are special instances of ancestral graphs, which are mixed graphs with undirected, directed, and bi-directed edges.  In this paper, we show how simplicial sets and the newly defined orientable edges can be used to construct a maximal ancestral graph that is Markov equivalent to a given bi-directed graph, i. e.  the independence models associated with the two graphs coincide, and such that the number of arrowheads is minimal.  Here the number of arrowheads of an ancestral graph is the number of directed edges plus twice the number of bi-directed edges.  This construction yields an immediate check whether the original bi-directed graph is Markov equivalent to a directed acyclic graph (Bayesian network) or an undirected graph (Markov random field).  Moreover, the ancestral graph construction allows for computationally more efficient maximum likelihood fitting of covariance graph models, i. e.  Gaussian bi-directed graph models.  In particular, we give a necessary and sufficient graphical criterion for determining when an entry of the maximum likelihood estimate of the covariance matrix must equal its empirical counterpart. 
Iterative Conditional Fitting for Estimation of a Covariance Matrix with Zeros| Abstract We consider estimation of the covariance matrix of a random vector under the constraint that certain elements in the covariance matrix are zero.  Assuming that the random vector follows a multivariate normal distribution, in which case the model is also known as covariance graph model, we present a new algorithm for maximum likelihood estimation of the covariance matrix with zero pattern.  We give our new algorithm the name Iterative Conditional Fitting since in each step of the procedure, a conditional distribution is estimated, subject to constraints, while a marginal distribution is held fixed.  This approach is in duality to the well-known iterative proportional fitting algorithm, in which marginal distributions are fitted while conditional distributions are held fixed.  We show that Iterative Conditional Fitting can be implemented using least squares computations and we establish the convergence properties of the algorithm. 
Rank-one latent models for cross-covariance| Abstract A class of Gaussian latent-variable models for cross-covariance is
Maximum Likelihood Estimation in Gaussian AMP Chain Graph Models and Gaussian Ancestral Graph Models| and have found that it is complete and satisfactory in all respects,
On the Design of Low-Density Parity-Check Codes within 0|0045 dB of the Shannon Limit.  Abstract---We develop improved algorithms to construct good low-density parity-check codes that approach the Shannon limit very closely.  For rate 1/2, the best code found has a threshold within 0. 0045 dB of the Shannon limit of the binary-input additive white Gaussian noise channel.  Simulation results with a somewhat simpler code show that we can achieve within 0. 04 dB of the Shannon limit at a bit error rate of 10 6 using a block length of 10 7 . 
Iterative Conditional Fitting for Gaussian Ancestral Graph Models| Abstract Ancestral graph models, introduced by Richardson and Spirtes (2002), generalize both Markov random fields and Bayesian networks to a class of graphs with a global Markov property that is closed under conditioning and marginalization.  By design, ancestral graphs encode precisely the conditional independence structures that can arise from Bayesian networks with selection and unobserved (hidden/latent) variables.  Thus, ancestral graph models provide a potentially very useful framework for exploratory model selection when unobserved variables might be involved in the data-generating process but no particular hidden structure can be specified.  In this paper, we present the Iterative Conditional Fitting (ICF) algorithm for maximum likelihood estimation in Gaussian ancestral graph models.  The name reflects that in each step of the procedure a conditional distribution is estimated, subject to constraints, while a marginal distribution is held fixed.  This approach is in duality to the well-known Iterative Proportional Fitting algorithm, in which marginal distributions are fitted while conditional distributions are held fixed. 
Markov Properties for Acyclic Directed Mixed Graphs| Abstract We consider acyclic directed mixed graphs, in which directed edges (x ! y) and bi-directed edges (x $ y) may occur.  A simple extension of Pearl's d-separation criterion, called m-separation, is applied to these graphs.  We introduce a local Markov property which is equivalent to the global property resulting from the m-separation criterion. 
Global Teleporting with Java: Towards ubiquitous personalised computing| Abstract Previous work has described teleporting, an approach to mobile computing in which it is the user's personal application environment which is mobile rather than the hardware on which the applications run.  In this paper we describe a new teleporting system which makes the user's environment available on any machine in the world running a Java-compliant web browser.  We present some preliminary experimental results together with discussions of security and performance issues. 
Discriminatively Structured Graphical Models for Speech Recognition The Graphical Models Team JHU 2001 Summer Workshop| Abstract In recent years there has been growing interest in discriminative parameter training techniques, resulting from notable improvements in speech recognition performance on tasks ranging in size from digit recognition to
A New Algorithm for Maximum Likelihood Estimation in Gaussian Graphical Models for Marginal Independence| Abstract Graphical models with bi-directed edges ($) represent marginal independence: the absence of an edge between two vertices indicates that the corresponding variables are marginally independent.  In this paper, we consider maximum likelihood estimation in the case of continuous variables with a Gaussian joint distribution, sometimes termed a covariance graph model.  We present a new fitting algorithm which exploits standard regression techniques and establish its convergence properties.  Moreover, we contrast our procedure to existing estimation methods. 
Employment During High School: Consequences for Students' Grades in Academic Courses| Abstract High school students who work intensively at paid jobs tend to have lower grades in academic courses.  Prior research has not properly tested theories about the source of the relationship between student employment and grades (or other outcomes), and has not explicitly modeled the potentially reciprocal nature of this relationship.  We focus on both the short- and long-term effects of adolescent employment on grades in academic courses and simultaneously consider the extent to which grades may influence employment behaviors.  We find no evidence that high school employment has either short- or long-term effects on grades in academic courses or that grades in these courses influence employment activities.  Preexisting differences between more and less intensively employed students fully accounts for the association between employment intensity and grades in academic courses. 
The capacity of low-density parity-check codes under message-passing decoding| Abstract---In this paper, we present a general method for determining the capacity of low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes under message-passing decoding when used over any binary-input memoryless channel with discrete or continuous output alphabets.  Transmitting at rates below this capacity, a randomly chosen element of the given ensemble will achieve an arbitrarily small target probability of error with a probability that approaches one exponentially fast in the length of the code.  (By concatenating with an appropriate outer code one can achieve a probability of error that approaches zero exponentially fast in the length of the code with arbitrarily small loss in rate. ) Conversely, transmitting at rates above this capacity the probability of error is bounded away from zero by a strictly positive constant which is independent of the length of the code and of the number of iterations performed.  Our results are based on the observation that the concentration of the performance of the decoder around its average performance, as observed by Luby et al.  [1] in the case of a binary-symmetric channel and a binary message-passing algorithm, is a general phenomenon.  For the particularly important case of belief-propagation decoders, we provide an effective algorithm to determine the corresponding capacity to any desired degree of accuracy.  The ideas presented in this paper are broadly applicable and extensions of the general method to low-density parity-check codes over larger alphabets, turbo codes, and other concatenated coding schemes are outlined. 
A Note on On a Dualization of Graphical Gaussian Models| Abstract We correct two proofs concerning Markov properties for graphs representing marginal independence relations. 
Design of provably good low-density parity-check codes| Submitted to IEEE Transactions on. 
Boosting methodology for regression problems|
Global Teleporting with Java: Toward Ubiquitous Personalized Computing|
Efficient encoding of low-density parity-check codes|
Design of capacity-approaching irregular low-density parity-check codes|
Finite-length analysis of low-density parity-check codes on the binary erasure channel,|
The capacity of low-density parity-check codes,|
Teleporting---making applications mobile|
An evaluation of machine-learning methods for predicting pneumonia mortality|
Chain graphs and their causal interpretations|
The renaissance of Gallager's low-density parity-check codes,|
\Chain Graph Models and their Causal Interpretation|
Multimodality of the likelihood in the bivariate seemingly unrelated regression model|
\Some good multiple-antenna codes,|
Causal Inference in the Presence of Latent Variables and Selection Bias|
Exact Thresholds and Optimal Codes for the Binary-Symmetric Channel and Gallager's Decoding Algorithm A|
Thresholds of turbo codes," paper,|
Exact thresholds for the binary symmetric channel and Gallager's decoding algorithm A,|
Finite length analysis of low-density parity check codes|
Recentralization in China? Paper presented at the International Monetary Fund conference,|
Characterization of the histone H1-binding protein, NASP, as a cell cycle-regulated somatic protein|
The RFB Protocol|
An introduction to the analysis of iterative coding systems",|
Cloud nine blown away, blames hack attack|
Multimodality of the likelihood in the bivariate seemingly unrelated regressions model|
On a dualization of graphical Gaussian models: A correction note|
Electrophysiological studies of the functions of the nucleus basalis in primates|
\On the design of low-density paritycheck codes within 0|0045 dB of the Shannon limit. " accepted for publication in IEEE Communications Letters;. 
A Discovery Algorithm for Directed Cyclic Graphs|
Simplicial sets and orientable edges in graphical models for marginal independence|
The New Tertiary Model and its Low-Level Impact| Paper presented at the InSITE Conference,. 
Articulatory rehearsal and phonological storage in working memory|
"On the design of Lowdensity Parity-Check codes within 0|0045dB of the Shannon limit,. 
A variational formulation-based edge focussing algorithm|
Modern coding theory| Draft from lthcwww. 
An approach to seizure detection using an artificial neural network (ANN),"|
CDs and DVDs are `doomed'|
Chain graphs and symmetric associations|
Mining Entity-Identification Rules for Database Integration|
