Convex Methods for Transduction| Abstract The 2-class transduction problem, as formulated by Vapnik [1], involves finding a separating hyperplane for a labelled data set that is also maximally distant from a given set of unlabelled test points.  In this form, the problem has exponential computational complexity in the size of the working set.  So far it has been attacked by means of integer programming techniques [2] that do not scale to reasonable problem sizes, or by local search procedures [3].  In this paper we present a relaxation of this task based on semidefinite programming (SDP), resulting in a convex optimization problem that has polynomial complexity in the size of the data set.  The results are very encouraging for mid sized data sets, however the cost is still too high for large scale problems, due to the high dimensional search space.  To this end, we restrict the feasible region by introducing an approximation based on solving an eigenproblem.  With this approximation, the computational cost of the algorithm is such that problems with more than 1000 points can be treated. 
A statistical framework for genomic data fusion| ABSTRACT Motivation: During the past decade, the new focus on genomics has highlighted a particular challenge: to integrate the different views of the genome that are provided by various types of experimental data.  Results: This paper describes a computational framework for integrating and drawing inferences from a collection of genome-wide measurements.  Each data set is represented via a kernel function, which defines generalized similarity relationships between pairs of entities, such as genes or proteins.  The kernel representation is both flexible and efficient, and can be applied to many different types of data.  Furthermore, kernel functions derived from different types of data can be combined in a straightforward fashion.  Recent advances in the theory of kernel methods have provided efficient algorithms to perform such combinations in a way that minimizes a statistical loss function.  These methods exploit semidefinite programming techniques to reduce the problem of finding optimizing kernel combinations to a convex optimization problem.  Computational experiments performed using yeast genome-wide data sets, including amino acid sequences, hydropathy profiles, gene expression data and known protein-protein interactions, demonstrate the utility of this approach.  A statistical learning algorithm trained from all of these data to recognize particular classes of proteins---membrane proteins and ribosomal proteins---performs significantly better than the same algorithm trained on any single type of data. 
Efficiently Learning the Metric with Side-Information|
