Bayesian Modeling of Facial Similarity| Abstract In previous work [6, 9, 10], we advanced a new technique for direct visual matching of images for the purposes of face recognition and image retrieval, using a probabilistic measure of similarity based primarily on a Bayesian (MAP) analysis of image differences, leading to a \dual" basis similar to eigenfaces [13].  The performance advantage of this probabilistic matching technique over standard Euclidean nearest-neighbor eigenface matching was recently demonstrated using results from DARPA's 1996 \FERET" face recognition competition, in which this probabilistic matching algorithm was found to be the top performer.  Wehave further developed a simple method of replacing the costly compution of nonlinear (online) Bayesian similarity measures by the relatively inexpensive computation of linear (o#ine) subspace projections and simple (online) Euclidean norms, thus resulting in a significant computational speed-up for implementation with very large image databases as typically encountered in real-world applications. 
A Kernel Between Sets of Vectors| Abstract In various application domains, including image recognition, it is natural to represent each example as a set of vectors.  With a base kernel we can implicitly map these vectors to a Hilbert space and fit a Gaussian distribution to the whole set using Kernel PCA.  We define our kernel between examples as Bhattacharyya's measure of anity between such Gaussians.  The resulting kernel is computable in closed form and enjoys many favorable properties, including graceful behavior under transformations, potentially justifying the vector set representation even in cases when more conventional representations also exist. 
Appears in: Proceedings of the Modelling People Workshop at ICCV'99 Real Time Tracking and Modeling of Faces: An EKF-based Analysis by Synthesis Approach| Abstract A real-time system for tracking and modeling of faces using an analysis-by-synthesis approach is presented.  A 3D face model is texture-mapped with a head-on view of the face.  Feature points in the facetexture are then selected based on image Hessians.  The selected points of the rendered image are tracked in the incoming video using normalized correlation.  The result is fed into an extended Kalman filter to recover camera geometry, head pose, and structure from motion.  This information is used to rigidly move the face model to render the next image needed for tracking.  Every point is tracked from the Kalman filter's estimated position.  The variance of each measurement is estimated using a number of factors, including the residual error and the angle between the surface normal and the camera.  The estimated head pose can be used to warp the face in the incoming video back to frontal position, and parts of the image can then be subject to eigenspace coding for efficient transmission.  The mouth texture is transmitted in this way using 50 bits per frame plus overhead from the person specific eigenspace.  The face tracking system runs at 30 Hz, coding the mouth texture slows it down to 12 Hz. 
On Reversing Jensen's Inequality| Abstract Jensen's inequality is a powerful mathematical tool and one of the workhorses in statistical learning.  Its applications therein include the EM algorithm, Bayesian estimation and Bayesian inference.  Jensen computes simple lower bounds on otherwise intractable quantities such as products of sums and latent log-likelihoods.  This simplification then permits operations like integration and maximization.  Quite often (i. e.  in discriminative learning) upper bounds are needed as well.  We derive and prove an efficient analytic inequality that provides such variational upper bounds.  This inequality holds for latent variable mixtures of exponential family distributions and thus spans a wide range of contemporary statistical models.  We also discuss applications of the upper bounds including maximum conditional likelihood, large margin discriminative models and conditional Bayesian inference.  Convergence, efficiency and prediction results are shown.  1
Convex Invariance Learning| Abstract Invariance and representation learning are important precursors to modeling and classification tools particularly for non-Euclidean spaces such as images, strings and nonvectorial data.  This article proposes a method for learning invariances in data while jointly estimating a model.  The technique results in a convex programming problem with a consistent and unique solution.  Representation variables are considered as ane transformations confined by multiple equality and inequality constraints.  These interact individually with each datum yet maintain the overall solvability of the model estimation process while uniquely solving for the representational variables themselves.  The method is applicable to various types of modeling, including maximum likelihood estimation, principal components analysis, and discriminative methods.  Starting from ane invariance, several types of invariances are proposed and implemented as convex programs including clustering, permutation, selection, rotation, and translation.  Experiments on non-vectorial data such as images and collections of tuples provide promising results. 
DyPERS: Dynamic Personal Enhanced Reality System| Abstract DyPERS, 'Dynamic Personal Enhanced Reality System', is a wearable system which uses augmented reality and computer vision to autonomously retrieve 'media memories' based on associations with real objects the user encounters.  These are evoked as audio and video clips taken by the user and overlayed on top of real objects the user looks at.  The user's visual and auditory scene is stored in real-time by the system (upon request) and is then associated (by user input) with a snap shot of a visual object.  The object acts as a key which is detected by a real-time vision system when it is in view, triggering DyPERS to play back the appropriate audio-visual sequence.  The vision system is a probabilistic algorithm which is capable of discriminating between hundreds of everyday objects under varying viewing conditions (lighting, pose, etc. ).  The record-andassociate paradigm of the system has many potential applications.  Results on the use of the system in a museum tour scenario are described.  1
Alternating Projection for Independent Component Analysis| Abstract We describe a non-parametric method for performing independent component analysis via alternating minimization or alternating information projections.  The method iteratively minimizes the KLdivergence between two manifolds in probability space.  The first is the manifold of all factorized or independent distributions.  The other is a manifold of all rotated versions of the data's empirical distribution.  Projections from each manifold to the closest point in the other involve minimizing KL divergences or information projections in probability space.  The projection onto the manifold of factorized distributions from a given empirical one is trivial.  The projection from a factorized distribution to the manifold of rotated data distributions involves computing the cumulative density function in each dimension to equalize each distribution and iteratated variational singular value decompositions.  This leads to an ecient algorithm that monotonically decreases the KL-divergence from a distribution and its factorized approximation.  The final converged rotations recover the independent components in the data. 
An Interactive Computer Vision System DyPERS: Dynamic Personal Enhanced Reality System| Abstract.  DyPERS, 'Dynamic Personal Enhanced Reality System', uses augmented reality and computer vision to autonomously retrieve 'media memories' based on associations with real objects the user encounters.  These are evoked as audio and video clips relevant for the user and overlayed on top of real objects the user encounters.  The system utilizes an adaptive, audio-visual learning system on a tetherless wearable computer.  The user's visual and auditory scene is stored in real-time by the system (upon request) and is then associated (by user input) with a snap shot of a visual object.  The object acts as a key such that when the real-time vision system detects its presence in the scene again, DyPERS plays back the appropriate audio-visual sequence.  The vision system is a probabilistic algorithm which is capable of discriminating between hundreds of everyday objects under varying viewing conditions (view changes, lighting, etc. ).  Once an audio-visual clip is stored, the vision system automatically recalls it and plays it back when it detects the object that the user wished to use to remind him of the sequence.  The DyPERS interface augments the user without encumbering him and effectively mimics a form of audio-visual memory.  First results on performance and usability are shown. 
Stochasticks: Augmenting the Billiards Experience with Probabilistic Vision and Wearable Computers| Abstract We propose a practical application of wearable computing and augmented reality which enhances the game of billiards.  A vision algorithm is implemented which operates in interactive-time with the user to assist planning and aiming.  Probabilistic color models and symmetry operations are used to localize the table, pockets and balls through a video camera near the user's eye.  Classification of the objects of interest is performed and each possible shot is ranked in order to determine its relative usefulness.  The system allows the user to proceed through a regular pool game while it automatically determines strategic shots.  The resulting trajectories are rendered as graphical overlays on a head mounted live video display.  The wearable video output and the computer vision system provide an integration of real and virtual environments which enhances the experience of playing and learning the game of billiards without encumbering the player. 
Dynamical Systems Trees| Abstract We propose dynamical systems trees (DSTs) as a flexible class of models for describing multiple processes that interact via a hierarchy of aggregating parent chains.  DSTs extend Kalman filters, hidden Markov models and nonlinear dynamical systems to an interactive group scenario.  Various individual processes interact as communities and sub-communities in a tree structure that is unrolled in time.  To accommodate nonlinear temporal activity, each individual leaf process is modeled as a dynamical system containing discrete and/or continuous hidden states with discrete and/or Gaussian emissions.  Subsequent higher level parent processes act like hidden Markov models and mediate the interaction between leaf processes or between other parent processes in the hierarchy.  Aggregator chains are parents of child processes that they combine and mediate, yielding a compact overall parameterization.  We provide tractable inference and learning algorithms for arbitrary DST topologies via an ecient structured mean-field algorithm.  The diverse applicability of DSTs is demonstrated by experiments on gene expression data and by modeling group behavior in the setting of an American football game. 
An SVM Learning Approach to Robotic Grasping| Abstract--- Finding appropriate stable grasps for a hand (either robotic or human) on an arbitrary object has proved to be a challenging and difficult problem.  The space of grasping parameters coupled with the degrees-of-freedom and geometry of the object to be grasped creates a high-dimensional, non- smooth manifold.  Traditional search methods applied to this manifold are typically not powerful enough to find appropriate stable grasping solutions, let alone optimal grasps.  We address this issue in this paper, which attempts to find optimal grasps of objects using a grasping simulator.  Our unique approach to the problem involves a combination of numerical methods to recover parts of the grasp quality surface with any robotic hand, and contemporary machine learning methods to interpolate that surface, in order to find the optimal grasp. 
Feature Selection and Dualities in Maximum Entropy Discrimination| Abstract Incorporating feature selection into a classification or regression method often carries a number of advantages.  In this paper we formalize feature selection specifically from a discriminative perspective of improving classification/regression accuracy.  The feature selection method is developed as an extension to the recently proposed maximum entropy discrimination (MED) framework.  We describe MED as a flexible (Bayesian) regularization approach that subsumes, e. g. , support vector classification, regression and exponential family models.  For brevity, we restrict ourselves primarily to feature selection in the context of linear classification/regression methods and demonstrate that the proposed approach indeed carries substantial improvements in practice.  Moreover, we discuss and develop various extensions of feature selection, including the problem of dealing with example specific but unobserved degrees of freedom -- alignments or invariants. 
Multi-task feature and kernel selection for SVMs| Abstract We compute a common feature selection or kernel selection configuration for multiple support vector machines (SVMs) trained on different yet inter-related datasets.  The method is advantageous when multiple classi#cation tasks and differently labeled datasets exist over a common input space.  Different datasets can mutually reinforce a common choice of representation or relevant features for their various classifiers.  We derive a multi-task representation learning approach using the maximum entropy discrimination formalism.  The resulting convex algorithms maintain the global solution properties of support vector machines.  However, in addition to multiple SVM classi#cation/regression parameters they also jointly estimate an optimal subset of features or optimal combination of kernels.  Experiments are shown on standardized datasets. 
Maximum Entropy Discrimination| Abstract We present a general framework for discriminative estimation based on the maximum entropy principle and its extensions.  All calculations involve distributions over structures and/or parameters rather than specific settings and reduce to relative entropy projections.  This holds even when the data is not separable within the chosen parametric class, in the context of anomaly detection rather than classification, or when the labels in the training set are uncertain or incomplete.  Support vector machines are naturally subsumed under this class and we provide several extensions.  We are also able to estimate exactly and eciently discriminative distributions over tree structures of class-conditional models within this framework.  Preliminary experimental results are indicative of the potential in these techniques. 
Submitted to IEEE Trans| on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence TPAMI--0206--0803 Short Paper Clustered Blockwise PCA for Representing Visual Data.  Abstract Principal Component Analysis (PCA) is extensively used in computer vision and image processing.  Since it provides the optimal linear subspace in a least-square sense, it has been used for dimensionality reduction and subspace analysis in various domains.  However, its scalability is very limited because of its inherent computational complexity.  We introduce a new framework for applying PCA to visual data which takes advantage of the spatio-temporal correlation and localized frequency variations that are typically found in such data.  Instead of applying PCA to the whole volume of data (complete set of images), we partition the volume into a set of blocks and apply PCA to each block.  Then, we group the subspaces corresponding to the blocks and merge them together.  As a result, we not only achieve greater efficiency in the resulting representation of the visual data, but also successfully scale PCA to handle large data sets.  We present a thorough analysis of the computational complexity and storage benefits of our approach.  We apply our algorithm to several types of videos.  We show that, in addition to its storage and speed benefits, the algorithm results in a useful representation of the visual data. 
Parametrized structure from motion for 3D adaptive feedback tracking of faces|
3D pose estimation and normalization,|
Bayesian face recognition|
Tracking conversational context for machine mediation of human discourse|
Discriminative, Generative and Imitative Learning|
Mixtures of Eigen Features for Real-Time Structure from Texture|
Prametrized structure from motion for 3d adaptative feedback tracking of faces|
Feature selection and dualities in maximum entropy|
Action Reaction Learning: Automatic Visual Analysis and Synthesis of Interactive Behaviour|
Real time tracking and modeling of faces: An EKF-based analysis by synthesis approach|
Multimodal Person Recognition Using Unconstrained Audio and Video,|
Bhattacharyya Expected Likelihood Kernels|
"A kernel between sets of vectors,"|
"Bhattarcharyya and expected likehood kernels,|
Action Reaction Learning: Analysis and Synthesis of Human Behavior,|
The Generalized CEM Algorithm|
\Maximum Entropy D iscriminationnchar"|
Augmented realities in tegrating user and physical models|
Pen tland| Stoc hastic ks: Augmenting the billiardsexperience with probabilistic vision and wearable computers. 
Sensory-Augmented Computing: Wearing the Museum's Guide,|
Probability Product Kernels|
Statistical imitative learning from perceptual data|
Dynamic Personal Enhanced Reality System MIT Media Laboratory,|
Learning regulatory networks from sparsely sampled time series expression data|
Efficient MAP/ML similarity matching for face recognition|
Toco the toucan: A synthetic character guided by perception, emotion, and story|
