Extending the shine-through effect to classical masking paradigms| Abstract A vernier, presented for a short time, shines through a following grating if the grating contains nine and more elements but remains largely invisible for smaller gratings.  Therefore, extended grating masks yield, surprisingly, less masking than smaller ones.  Here, we show that this mask size effect is not unique to grating masks.  Masking diminishes if the size of classical pattern-, noise-, light-, and metacontrast masks increases and if these masks are regular, i. e.  highly ordered. 
Delay adaptation in the nervous system| Abstract Time delays are ubiquitous in the nervous system.  Empirical "ndings suggest that time delays are adapted when considering the synchronous activity of neurons.  We introduce a framework for studying the dynamics of self-organized delay adaptation in systems which optimize coincidence of inputs.  The framework comprises two families of delay adaptation mechanisms, delay shift and delay selection.  For the important case of periodically modulated input we derive conditions for the existence and stability of solutions which constrain learning rules for reliable delay adaptation.  Delay adaptation is also applicable in the case of several spatiotemporal neuronal input patterns. 
Dynamics of neuronal populations modeled by a Wilson--Cowan system account for the transient visibility of maskedstimuli| Abstract We study the transient dynamics occurring in a Wilson--Cowan type model of neuronal populations to explain psychophysical masking e/ects, in which
LETTER Communicated by Manfred Fahle Local Interactions in Neural Networks Explain Global Effects in Gestalt Processing and Masking| One of the fundamental and puzzling questions in vision research is how objects are segmented from their backgrounds and how object formation evolves in time.  The recently discovered shine-through effect allows one to study object segmentation and object formation of a masked target depending on the spatiotemporal Gestalt of the masking stimulus (Herzog & Koch, 2001).  In the shine-through effect, a vernier (two abutting lines) precedes a grating for a very short time.  For small gratings, the vernier remains invisible while it regains visibility as a shine-through element for extended and homogeneous gratings.  However, even subtle deviations from the homogeneity of the grating diminish or even abolish shinethrough.  At rst glance, these results suggest that explanations of these effects have to rely on high-level Gestalt terminology such as homogeneity rather than on low-level properties such as luminance (Herzog, Fahle, & Koch, 2001).  Here, we show that a simple neural network model of the Wilson-Cowan type qualitatively and quantitatively explains the basic effects in the shine-through paradigm, although the model does not contain any explicit, global Gestalt processing.  Visibility of the target vernier corresponds to transient activation of neural populations resulting from the dynamics of local lateral interactions of excitatory and inhibitory layers of neural populations. 
Synchronization induced by temporal delays in pulse-coupled oscillators|
Delay-induced multistable synchronization of biological oscillators,|
Alterungsverhalten von Schreib-, Druck- und Kopierpapieren|
Irregular synchronous activity in stochastically-coupled networks of integrate-and-"re neurons,|
Stabilization of growing retinal axons by the combined signaling of nitric oxide and brain-derived neurotropic factor,|
Cortical population dynamics and psychophysics|
Dynamics of self-organised delay adaptation|
Intracortical origin of visual maps|
Local Interactions in Neural Networks Explain Global Effects in Gestalt Processing and Masking|
Finite-size effects of avalanche dynamics|
DYNAMO - Dynamics of North Atlantic Models: simulation and assimilation with higher-resolution models|
A second nitrogenase in vegetative cells of a heterocystforming cyanobacterium|
Dynamics of self-organized delay adaptation|
Theory of non-classical receptive field phenomena in the visual cortex|
Construction and characterization of protein libraries composed of secondary structure modules|
