Stability-Based Model Selection| Abstract Model selection is linked to model assessment, which is the problem of comparing different models, or model parameters, for a specific learning task.  For supervised learning, the standard practical technique is crossvalidation, which is not applicable for semi-supervised and unsupervised settings.  In this paper, a new model assessment scheme is introduced which is based on a notion of stability.  The stability measure yields an upper bound to cross-validation in the supervised case, but extends to semi-supervised and unsupervised problems.  In the experimental part, the performance of the stability measure is studied for model order selection in comparison to standard techniques in this area. 
A Resampling Approach to Cluster Validation| Abstract.  The concept of cluster stability is introduced as a means for assessing the validity of data partitionings found by clustering algorithms.  It allows us to explicitly quantify the quality of a clustering solution, without being dependent on external information.  The principle of maximizing the cluster stability can be interpreted as choosing the most self-consistent data partitioning.  We present an empirical estimator for the theoretically derived stability index, based on imitating independent sample-sets by way of resampling.  Experiments on both toy-examples and real-world problems effectively demonstrate that the proposed validation principle is highly suited for model selection. 
Pairwise Coupling for Machine Recognition of Hand-Printed Japanese Characters| Abstract Machine recognition of hand-printed Japanese characters has been an area of great interest for many years.  The major problem with this classification task is the huge number of different characters.  Applying standard "state-ofthe-art" techniques, such as the SVM, to multi-class problems of this kind imposes severe problems, both of a conceptual and a technical nature: (i) separating one class from all others may be an unnecessarily hard problem; (ii) solving these subproblems can impose unacceptably high computational costs.  In this paper, a new approach to Japanese character recognition is presented that successfully overcomes these shortcomings.  It is based on a pairwise coupling procedure for probabilistic two-class kernel classifiers.  Experimental results for Hiragana recognition effectively demonstrate that our method attains an excellent level of prediction accuracy while imposing very low computational costs. 
Going Metric: Denoising Pairwise Data| Abstract Pairwise data in empirical sciences typically violate metricity, either due to noise or due to fallible estimates, and therefore are hard to analyze by conventional machine learning technology.  In this paper we therefore study ways to work around this problem.  First, we present an alternative embedding to multi-dimensional scaling (MDS) that allows us to apply the zoo of machine learning and signal processing algorithms.  The class of pairwise grouping algorithms which share the shift-invariance property is statistically invariant under this embedding procedure, leading to identical assignments of objects to clusters.  Based on this new vectorial representation, denoising methods are applied in a second step.  Both steps provide a theoretically well controlled setup to translate from pairwise data to the respective denoised metric representation.  We demonstrate the practical usefulness of our theoretical reasoning by discovering structure in protein sequence data bases, visibly improving performance upon existing automatic methods. 
A Hidden Markov Model for de Novo Peptide Sequencing| Abstract De novo Sequencing of peptides is a challenging task in proteome research.  While there exist reliable DNA-sequencing methods, the highthroughput de novo sequencing of proteins by mass spectrometry is still an open problem.  Current approaches suffer from a lack in precision to detect mass peaks in the spectrograms.  In this paper we present a novel method for de novo peptide sequencing based on a hidden Markov model.  Experiments effectively demonstrate that this new method significantly outperforms standard approaches in matching quality. 
Java Security Architecture and Extension in Practice| Abstract In this article, we report on experiences with the JCA/JCE and existing Java Security Providers (short: providers) that we drew from building provider- and algorithm-independent support for PKCS#7 based on the JCA/JCE.  A number of problems came to our attention which were caused by shortcomings in the JCA and in a number of existing Java Security Providers.  The repetitive pattern of these shortcomings suggests that they are likely of general interest for those building either providers or software that shall function independent of particular providers or a particular cryptographic algorithm. 
Secure Recording of Itineraries through Co-operating Agents| Abstract Security is a fundamental precondition for the acceptance of mobile agent systems.  In this paper we discuss protocols to improve agent security by distributing critical data and operations on mutually supporting agents which migrate in disjunct host domains.  In order to attack agents, hosts must form coalitions.  Proper selection of itineraries can minimize the risk of such coalitions being formed. 
Improved Key Management for Digital Watermark Monitoring| ABSTRACT In this article we propose
Clustering with the Connectivity Kernel| Abstract Clustering aims at extracting hidden structure in dataset.  While the problem of finding compact clusters has been widely studied in the literature, extracting arbitrarily formed elongated structures is considered a much harder problem.  In this paper we present a novel clustering algorithm which tackles the problem by a two step procedure: first the data are transformed in such a way that elongated structures become compact ones.  In a second step, these new objects are clustered by optimizing a compactness-based criterion.  The advantages of the method over related approaches are threefold: (i) robustness properties of compactness-based criteria naturally transfer to the problem of extracting elongated structures, leading to a model which is highly robust against outlier objects; (ii) the transformed distances induce a Mercer kernel which allows us to formulate a polynomial approximation scheme to the generally NPhard clustering problem; (iii) the new method does not contain free kernel parameters in contrast to methods like spectral clustering or mean-shift clustering. 
Outlier Detection with One-class Kernel Fisher Discriminants| Abstract The problem of detecting "atypical objects" or "outliers" is one of the classical topics in (robust) statistics.  Recently, it has been proposed to address this problem by means of one-class SVM classifiers.  The main conceptual shortcoming of most one-class approaches, however, is that in a strict sense they are unable to detect outliers, since the expected fraction of outliers has to be specified in advance.  The method presented in this paper overcomes this problem by relating kernelized one-class classification to Gaussian density estimation in the induced feature space.  Having established this relation, it is possible to identify "atypical objects" by quantifying their deviations from the Gaussian model.  For RBF kernels it is shown that the Gaussian model is "rich enough" in the sense that it asymptotically provides an unbiased estimator for the true density.  In order to overcome the inherent model selection problem, a cross-validated likelihood criterion for selecting all free model parameters is applied. 
Programming Satan's Agents| Abstract Mobile agent security is still a young discipline and most naturally, the focus
with Applications to Gene Expression Data| Abstract.  The concept of cluster stability is introduced to assess the validity of data partitionings found by clustering algorithms.  It allows us to explicitly quantify the quality of a clustering solution, without being dependent on external information.  The principle of maximizing the cluster stability can be interpreted as choosing the most self-consistent data partitioning.  We present an empirical estimator for the theoretically derived stability index, based on resampling.  Experiments are conducted on well known gene expression data sets, re-analyzing the work by Alon et al.  [1] and by Spellman et al.  [8]. 
Optimal Cluster Preserving Embedding of Non-Metric Proximity Data| Abstract A new embedding method is introduced for clustering of pairwise data.  Pairwise data often violates metricity and, therefore, cannot be naturally embedded in a vector space.  Pairwise clustering methods take into account non metricity to yield a grouping solution based on all pairwise object relations.  We show that all cost-based pairwise methods sharing a certain shift invariance property can be reformulated as grouping problems in a Euclidian vector space, yielding identical assignments of objects to clusters.  This optimal embedding transforms the data in such a way that many vector based data mining algorithms become applicable, in particular denoising. 
Concepts and Architecture of a Security-Centric Mobile Agent Server| Abstract Mobile software agents are software components that are able to move in a network.  They are often considered as an attractive technology in electronic commerce applications.  Although security concerns prevail.  In this paper we describe the architecture and concepts of the SeMoA server -- a runtime environment for Java-based mobile agents.  Its architecture has a focus on security and easy extendability, and offers a framework for transparent content inspection of agents by means of filters.  We implemented filters that handle agent signing and authentication as well as selective encryption of agent contents.  Filters are applied transparently such that agents need not be aware of the security services provided by the server. 
An Application of Mobile Agents as Personal Assistents in Electronic Commerce| Abstract.  In this paper we describe the architecture of a Web-integrated personal commerce assistant application based on mobile agents.  The assistant's task is to do some high-level shopping on behalf of a user.  In our case the assistant organises the catering of a birthday party. 
Feature Selection in Clustering Problems| Abstract A novel approach to combining clustering and feature selection is presented.  It implements a wrapper strategy for feature selection, in the sense that the features are directly selected by optimizing the discriminative power of the used partitioning algorithm.  On the technical side, we present an efficient optimization algorithm with guaranteed local convergence property.  The only free parameter of this method is selected by a resampling-based stability analysis.  Experiments with real-world datasets demonstrate that our method is able to infer both meaningful partitions and meaningful subsets of features. 
Encrypting Java Archives and Its Application to Mobile Agent Security| Abstract.  In this article we describe an extension of Java Archives that allows to keep data encrypted for multiple recipients.  Encrypted data is accessible only by selected access groups.  Java archives may be used as containers of mobile agents, which allows agents to keep confidential data unaccessible while residing on untrusted hosts.  However, additional protective measures are required in order to prevent Cut & Paste attacks on mobile agents by malicious hosts.  One such mechanism is described.  The usefulness of the concepts is illustrated by an example application for user profile management in an electronic commerce setting. 
Mobile Agent Interoperability Patterns and Practice| Abstract A major setback for mobile agent technology is a lack of interoperability between systems for mobile agents which prevents them from reaching "critical mass".  In this paper, we analyze the requirements for interoperability, and present design patterns which support interoperability between systems for mobile agents.  We tested our patterns by adding support for Jade agents as well as for Tracy agents within our own mobile agent server SeMoA.  The results of our experiments and our conclusions are summarized. 
Empowering Mobile Software Agents| Abstract.  Recent work has shown that several cryptographic protocols for the protection of free-roaming mobile agents are vulnerable by means of protocol interleaving attacks.  This paper presents equivalent protocols meant to be robust against this type of attack.  Moreover, it describes the required processes and data structures at a level of detail that can be translated to an implementation in a straightforward way.  Our aim is to demonstrate how cryptographic processing can be implemented transparently for agent programmers, thereby reducing the risks of human error in (secure) mobile agent programming. 
Secure mobile agent systems using Java: where are we heading?| ABSTRACT Java is the predominant language for mobile agent systems, both for implementing mobile agent execution environments and for writing mobile agent applications.  This is due to inherent support for code mobility by means of dynamic class loading and separable class name spaces, as well as a number of security properties, such as language safety and access control by means of stack introspection.  However, serious questions must be raised whether Java is actually up to the task of providing a secure execution environment for mobile agents.  At the time of writing, it has neither resource control nor proper application separation.  In this article we take an in-depth look at Java as a foundation for secure mobile agent systems. 
Stability-Based Validation of Clustering Solutions|
Probabilistic Discriminative Kernel Classifiers for Multi-class Problems|
Nonlinear Discriminant Analysis Using Kernel Functions|
Mutual Protection of Co-operating Agents|
Listen and Whisper: Security Mechanisms for BGP (Awarded Best Student Paper!)|
Access control and key management for mobile agents|
On the Robustness of Some Cryptographic Protocols for Mobile Agent Protection|
Pattern Recognition Combining Feature- and Pixel-Based Classification Within a Real World Application|
Concepts and Architecture of a Security-centric Mobile Agent Server, Fifth International Symposium on Autonomous Decentralized Systems,|
A PIN-entry method resilient against shoulder surfing|
Access control and key management for mobile agents| Computers & Graphics,. 
