Transmitter Concentration Profiles in the Synaptic Cleft: An Analytical Model of Release and Diffusion| Abstract A three-dimensional model for release and diffusion of glutamate in the synaptic
Slow stochastic learning with global inhibition: a biological solution to the binary perceptron problem| Abstract Networks of neurons connected by plastic all-or-none synapses tend to quickly forget previously acquired information when new patterns are learned.  This problem could be solved for random uncorrelated patterns by randomly selecting a small fraction of synapses to be modi-ed upon each stimulus presentation (slow stochastic learning).  Here we show that more complex, but still linearly separable patterns, can be learned by networks withbinary excitatory synapses in a -nite number of presentations provided that: (1) there is non-vanishing global inhibition, (2) the binary synapses are changed with small enough probability (slow learning) only when the output neuron does not give the desired response (as in the classical perceptron rule) and (3) the neuronal threshold separating the total synaptic inputs corresponding to di0erent classes is small enough. 
An Algorithm for Modifying Neurotransmitter Release Probability Based on Pre- and Postsynaptic Spike Timing| The precise times of occurrence of individual pre- and postsynaptic action potentials are known to play a key role in the modi cation of synaptic efcacy.  Based on stimulation protocols of two synaptically connected neurons, we infer an algorithm that reproduces the experimental data by modifying the probability of vesicle discharge as a function of the relative timing of spikes in the pre- and postsynaptic neurons.  The primary feature of this algorithm is an asymmetry with respect to the direction of synaptic modi cation depending on whether the presynaptic spikes precede or follow the postsynaptic spike.  Speci cally, if the presynaptic spike occurs up to 50 ms before the postsynaptic spike, the probability of vesicle discharge is upregulated, while the probability of vesicle discharge is downregulated if the presynaptic spike occurs up to 50 ms after the postsynaptic spike.  When neurons re irregularly with Poisson spike trains at constant mean ring rates, the probability of vesicle discharge converges toward a characteristic value determined by the preand postsynaptic ring rates.  On the other hand, if the mean rates of the Poisson spike trains slowly change with time, our algorithm predicts modi cations in the probability of release that generalize Hebbian and Bienenstock-Cooper-Munro rules.  We conclude that the proposed spikebased synaptic learning algorithm provides a general framework for regulating neurotransmitter release probability. 
A COSPECTRAL CORRECTION MODEL FOR MEASUREMENT OF TURBULENT NO| Abstract.  A correction model for eddy correlation flux measurements is developed and applied to nitrogen dioxide flux measurements obtained from a SOLENT sonic anemometer and a Scintrex Luminox LMA-3
Spike-Based Synaptic Plasticity and the Emergence of Direction Selective Simple Cells: Mathematical Analysis| Abstract.  Direction selectivity (DS) of simple cells in the primary visual cortex was recently suggested to arise from short-term synaptic depression in thalamocortical afferents (Chance F, Nelson S, Abbott L (1998), J.  Neuroscience 18(12): 4785--4799).  In the model, two groups of afferents with spatially displaced receptive fields project through either depressing and non-depressing synapses onto the V1 cell.  The degree of synaptic depression determines the temporal phase advance of the response to drifting gratings.  We show that the spatial displacement and the appropriate degree of synaptic depression required for DS can develop within an unbiased input scenario by means of temporally asymmetric spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP) which modifies both the synaptic strength and the degree of synaptic depression.  Moving stimuli of random velocities and directions break any initial receptive field symmetry and produce DS.  Frequency tuning curves and subthreshold membrane potentials akin to those measured for non-directional simple cells are thereby changed into those measured for directional cells.  If STDP is such that down-regulation dominates up-regulation the overall synaptic strength adapts in a self-organizing way such that eventually the postsynaptic response for the non-preferred direction becomes subthreshold.  To prevent unlearning of the acquired DS by randomly changing stimulus directions an additional learning threshold is necessary.  To further protect the development of the simple cell properties against noise in the stimulus, asynchronous and irregular synaptic inputs are required. 
A fuzzy logic approach to neuronal modeling| Abstract --- Methods of fuzzy logic are commonly used to model a complex system by a set of rules provided by experts.  But fuzzy methods can also be applied to the reverse problem: given the inputoutput behavior of a system, what are the rules which are governing that behavior.  We introduce this reengineering method to neuronal modeling and, as an example, we analyze a biological neuron of the Hodgkin-Huxley type.  Starting from measured data of the membrane potential and the sodium- and potassium-current through the membrane, we extract fuzzy rules which determine the time course of the membrane potential in terms of the actual values of the membrane current.  These fuzzy rules allow not only to rebuild the behavior but also to understand the underlying membrane mechanisms.  The approach offers a new representation of neuronal mechanisms in terms of linguistic rules. 
Comparison between networks of conductanceand current-driven neurons: stationary spike rates and subthreshold depolarization| Abstract The problem of an equivalence between conductance- and current-driven neurons in terms of mean stationary output rates is investigated.  We show that it is possible to study a network of conductance-driven neurons by means of a mean 0eld analysis of an equivalent networkof current-driven neurons.  The current drive is Gauss distributed and not voltage dependent.  The equivalent networkis composed by the same neurons and exhibits the same stable 0ring rates at the only price of having di2erent connectivity.  In addition, the di2erences in the subthreshold depolarization and the interspike-interval distribution can be studied at parity of output rates, providing a method to study those e2ects of the conductance drive which do not arise in a networkof current-driven neurons. 
Minimal Models of Adapted Neuronal Response to In Vivo--Like Input Currents| Rate models are often used to study the behavior of large networks of spiking neurons.  Here we propose a procedure to derive rate models that take into account the fluctuations of the input current and firing-rate adaptation, two ubiquitous features in the central nervous system that have been previously overlooked in constructing rate models.  The procedure is general and applies to any model of firing unit.  As examples, we apply it to the leaky integrate-and-fire (IF) neuron, the leaky IF neuron with reversal potentials, and to the quadratic IF neuron.  Two mechanisms of adaptation are considered, one due to an afterhyperpolarization current and the other to an adapting threshold for spike emission.  The parameters of these simple models can be tuned to match experimental data obtained from neocortical pyramidal neurons.  Finally, we show how the stationary model can be used to predict the time-varying activity of a large population of adapting neurons. 
Hyperpolarization-Activated Current I h Disconnects Somatic and Dendritic Spike Initiation Zones in Layer V Pyramidal Neurons| Hyperpolarization-activated current I h disconnects somatic and dendritic spike initiation zones in layer V pyramidal neurons. 
An Algorithm for Synaptic Modification Based on Exact Timing of Pre- and Post-Synaptic Action Potentials| Abstract.  The timing between individual pre- and post-synaptic action potentials is known to play a crucial role in the modification of the synaptic efficacy during activity.  Based on stimulation protocols of two synaptically connected neurons, we infer an algorithm which explains the data by modifying the probability of neurotransmitter discharge as a function of the pre- and postsynaptic spikedelays.  The characteristics of this algorithm is its asymmetry with respect to the delays: if the postsynaptic spike arrives after the presynaptic spike, the probabilityof discharge is up-regulated while it is down-regulated if the postsynaptic spike arrives before the presynaptic spike.  The algorithm allows to predict stimulation protocols which induce maximal up- and down-regulation of the discharge probability. 
An Algorithm for Modifying Neurotransmitter Release Probability Based on Pre- and Postsynaptic Spike Timing| Abstract.  The precise times of occurrence of individual pre- and post-synaptic action potentials is known to play a key role in the modification of the synaptic ecacy.  Based on stimulation protocols of two synaptically connected neurons, we infer an algorithm which reproduces the experimental data by modifying the probability of vesicle discharge as a function of the relative timing of spikes in the pre- and post-synaptic neurons.  The primary feature of this algorithm is an asymmetry with respect to the direction of synaptic modification depending on whether the presynaptic spikes precede or follow the postsynaptic spike.  Specifically, if the presynaptic spike occurs up to 50ms before the postsynaptic spike, the probability of vesicle discharge is up-regulated while the probability of vesicle discharge is down-regulated if the presynaptic spike occurs up to 50ms after the postsynaptic spike.  In the case where neurons fire irregularly with Poisson spike trains at constant mean firing rates, the probability of vesicle discharge converges towards a characteristic value which is determined by the pre- and post-synaptic firing rates.  On the other hand, if the mean rates of the Poisson spike trains slowly change with time our algorithm predicts modifications in the probability of release which generalize Hebbian and BCM rules.  We conclude that the proposed spike-based synaptic learning algorithm provides a general framework for regulating neurotransmitter release probability. 
A model of expectation effects in inferior temporal cortex| Abstract Preliminary experimental data suggests that primate inferior temporal cortex implements an automatic mechanism of expectation: inter-stimulus delay activity often increases or decreases monotonically.  The slope of the activity is such that the maximum/minimum is always reached at the time of the onset of the second stimulus, adapting to the length of the interval.  This mechanism could play an important role for a variety of neural computations that act on a time scale of a few seconds.  We developed a model that reproduces such monotonically increasing activity by making use of short-term synaptic facilitation and network effects. 
Activity-Dependent Development of Axonal and Dendritic Delays, or, Why Synaptic Transmission Should Be Unreliable|
Reading Neuronal Synchrony with Depressing Synapses|
Learning direction selectivity through spike-timing dependent modification of neurotransmitter release probability|
Neocortical pyramidal cells respond an integrate-and-fire neurons to in vivo-like input currents,|
